![A preview of the sweet-graduate-resume Typst
template.](https://packages.typst.org/preview/thumbnails/sweet-graduate-
resume-0.1.0-small.webp)

#  sweet-graduate-resume

0.1.0

A simple graduate student resume template

[ Create project in app ](/app?template=sweet-graduate-resume&version=0.1.0)

A basic resume template in typst.

To compile/watch, make sure you pass the argument ` --font-path ./fonts/ ` to
typst-cli.

If you use the helix editor, a configuration has been given in the repository.
This auto-compiles your document on saving and you can preview the results in
real time using a pdf viewer. Also provides autocomplete, code renaming, and
other cool (LSP) features.

Make sure you have tinymist and typstyle installed before using the helix
config.

##  Preview

![basic
template](https://github.com/typst/packages/raw/main/packages/preview/sweet-
graduate-resume/0.1.0/screenshot.png)

##  LICENSE

The FontAwesome Free/Brand fonts are licensed under [ Font Awesome Free
License ](https://github.com/FortAwesome/Font-Awesome?tab=License-1-ov-file)

The Codeberg SVG in the svg directory are licensed under [ Creative Commons
CC0
](https://codeberg.org/Codeberg/Design/src/commit/ac514aa9aaa2457d4af3c3e13df3ab136d22a49a/LICENSE)

For the rest, see [ LICENSE
](https://github.com/typst/packages/raw/main/packages/preview/sweet-graduate-
resume/0.1.0/LICENSE) .

##  Fonts

For fonts, please install the fonts from the repository of the project in
codeberg.

[ Create project in app ](/app?template=sweet-graduate-resume&version=0.1.0)

###  How to use

Click the button above to create a new project using this template in the
Typst app.

You can also use the Typst CLI to start a new project on your computer using
this command:

    
    
    typst init @preview/sweet-graduate-resume:0.1.0

![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

###  About

Author  :

     [ innocentzero (Md Isfarul Haque) ](https://innocent_zero.codeberg.page)
License:

     MIT 
Current version:

     0.1.0 
Last updated:

     July 4, 2024 
First released:

     July 4, 2024 
Archive size:

     47.6 kB [ ![Size icon](/assets/icons/16-download.svg) ](https://packages.typst.org/preview/sweet-graduate-resume-0.1.0.tar.gz)
Repository:

     [ Codeberg ](https://codeberg.org/innocent_zero/typst-resume)
Discipline  :

    

  * [ Engineering ](https://typst.app/universe/search/?discipline=engineering)

Categor  y  :

    

  * ![CV icon](/assets/icons/16-user.svg) [ CV ](https://typst.app/universe/search/?category=cv)

###  Where to report issues?

This  template  is a project of  innocentzero (Md Isfarul Haque)  .  Report
issues on  [ their repository ](https://codeberg.org/innocent_zero/typst-
resume) .  You can also try to ask for help with this  template  on the  [
Forum ](https://forum.typst.app) .

Please report this  template  to the Typst team using the  [ contact form
](https://typst.app/contact) if you believe it is a safety hazard or infringes
upon your rights.

###  Version history

Version  |  Release Date   
---|---  
0.1.0  |  July 4, 2024   
  
Typst GmbH did not create this  template  and cannot guarantee correct
functionality of this  template  or compatibility with any version of the
Typst compiler or app.

