  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Numbered List ](/docs/reference/model/enum/)

#  ` enum ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A numbered list.

Displays a sequence of items vertically and numbers them consecutively.

##  Example

    
    
    Automatically numbered:
    + Preparations
    + Analysis
    + Conclusions
    
    Manually numbered:
    2. What is the first step?
    5. I am confused.
    +  Moving on ...
    
    Multiple lines:
    + This enum item has multiple
      lines because the next line
      is indented.
    
    Function call.
    #enum[First][Second]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HrnJ1mRKvbXNf6U4DmZCaAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can easily switch all your enumerations to a different numbering style
with a set rule.

    
    
    #set enum(numbering: "a)")
    
    + Starting off ...
    + Don't forget step two
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hFb68a8DC-Rvf_eMOYtVMwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also use [ ` enum.item ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#definitions-
item) to programmatically customize the number of each item in the
enumeration:

    
    
    #enum(
      enum.item(1)[First step],
      enum.item(5)[Fifth step],
      enum.item(10)[Tenth step]
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uRQbjXrkv7FwltBxluVMMAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This functions also has dedicated syntax:

  * Starting a line with a plus sign creates an automatically numbered enumeration item. 
  * Starting a line with a number followed by a dot creates an explicitly numbered enumeration item. 

Enumeration items can contain multiple paragraphs and other block-level
content. All content that is indented more than an item's marker becomes part
of that item.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

enum  (

tight  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  numbering  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  start  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  full  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  body-indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  spacing  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  number-align  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` tight `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Defines the default [ spacing ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#parameters-
spacing) of the enumeration. If it is ` false  ` , the items are spaced apart
with [ paragraph spacing ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) . If
it is ` true  ` , they use [ paragraph leading
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) instead. This makes the list
more compact, which can look better if the items are short.

In markup mode, the value of this parameter is determined based on whether
items are separated with a blank line. If items directly follow each other,
this is set to ` true  ` ; if items are separated by a blank line, this is set
to ` false  ` . The markup-defined tightness cannot be overridden with set
rules.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    + If an enum has a lot of text, and
      maybe other inline content, it
      should not be tight anymore.
    
    + To make an enum wide, simply
      insert a blank line between the
      items.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/CGCi1WYCPLux25Xc9ZWwDQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` numbering `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to number the enumeration. Accepts a [ numbering pattern or function
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) .

If the numbering pattern contains multiple counting symbols, they apply to
nested enums. If given a function, the function receives one argument if `
full ` is ` false  ` and multiple arguments if ` full ` is ` true  ` .

Default: ` "1."  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set enum(numbering: "1.a)")
    + Different
    + Numbering
      + Nested
      + Items
    + Style
    
    #set enum(numbering: n => super[#n])
    + Superscript
    + Numbering!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/b_5poTPc-SH9hcwOp4TcbAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Which number to start the enumeration with.

Default: ` 1  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #enum(
      start: 3,
      [Skipping],
      [Ahead],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/NqaMIUfLtrq2fhf9xChjagAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` full `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to display the full numbering, including the numbers of all parent
enumerations.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set enum(numbering: "1.a)", full: true)
    + Cook
      + Heat water
      + Add ingredients
    + Eat
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ecL0fn92ARx_6xbLZYFkVAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indentation of each item.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` body-indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The space between the numbering and the body of each item.

Default: ` 0.5em  `

###  ` spacing `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between the items of the enumeration.

If set to ` auto  ` , uses paragraph [ ` leading `
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) for tight enumerations and
paragraph [ ` spacing ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) for
wide (non-tight) enumerations.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` number-align `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The alignment that enum numbers should have.

By default, this is set to ` end  +  top ` , which aligns enum numbers towards
end of the current text direction (in left-to-right script, for example, this
is the same as ` right ` ) and at the top of the line. The choice of ` end `
for horizontal alignment of enum numbers is usually preferred over ` start ` ,
as numbers then grow away from the text instead of towards it, avoiding
certain visual issues. This option lets you override this behaviour, however.
(Also to note is that the [ unordered list ](/docs/reference/model/list/) uses
a different method for this, by giving the ` marker ` content an alignment
directly.).

Default: ` end  +  top `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set enum(number-align: start + bottom)
    
    Here are some powers of two:
    1. One
    2. Two
    4. Four
    8. Eight
    16. Sixteen
    32. Thirty two
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/s-zUl9r9z6yKdW4VnsLi_AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The numbered list's items.

When using the enum syntax, adjacent items are automatically collected into
enumerations, even through constructs like for loops.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #for phase in (
       "Launch",
       "Orbit",
       "Descent",
    ) [+ #phase]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9haSHPkr8gDAx-1cEtmf8QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` item ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

An enumeration item.

enum  .  item  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` number `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The item's number.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The item's body.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Link  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/link/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Numbering  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/)

