  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Term List ](/docs/reference/model/terms/)

#  ` terms ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A list of terms and their descriptions.

Displays a sequence of terms and their descriptions vertically. When the
descriptions span over multiple lines, they use hanging indent to communicate
the visual hierarchy.

##  Example

    
    
    / Ligature: A merged glyph.
    / Kerning: A spacing adjustment
      between two adjacent letters.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qjdQTTJFa_RYtcfu42IiawAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: Starting a line with a slash,
followed by a term, a colon and a description creates a term list item.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

terms  (

tight  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  separator  :  [
content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  hanging-indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  spacing  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` tight `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Defines the default [ spacing ](/docs/reference/model/terms/#parameters-
spacing) of the term list. If it is ` false  ` , the items are spaced apart
with [ paragraph spacing ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) . If
it is ` true  ` , they use [ paragraph leading
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) instead. This makes the list
more compact, which can look better if the items are short.

In markup mode, the value of this parameter is determined based on whether
items are separated with a blank line. If items directly follow each other,
this is set to ` true  ` ; if items are separated by a blank line, this is set
to ` false  ` . The markup-defined tightness cannot be overridden with set
rules.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    / Fact: If a term list has a lot
      of text, and maybe other inline
      content, it should not be tight
      anymore.
    
    / Tip: To make it wide, simply
      insert a blank line between the
      items.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/skkuR2BgltlCHUy9cPpX7gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` separator `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The separator between the item and the description.

If you want to just separate them with a certain amount of space, use ` h  (
2cm  ,  weak  :  true  )  ` as the separator and replace ` 2cm  ` with your
desired amount of space.

Default: ` h  (  amount  :  0.6em  ,  weak  :  true  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set terms(separator: [: ])
    
    / Colon: A nice separator symbol.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xyyblMI8l_99lTt1_p5kWgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indentation of each item.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` hanging-indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The hanging indent of the description.

This is in addition to the whole item's ` indent ` .

Default: ` 2em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set terms(hanging-indent: 0pt)
    / Term: This term list does not
      make use of hanging indents.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6yYrKErT2JtRwBRmpS8r5wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` spacing `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between the items of the term list.

If set to ` auto  ` , uses paragraph [ ` leading `
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) for tight term lists and
paragraph [ ` spacing ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) for
wide (non-tight) term lists.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The term list's children.

When using the term list syntax, adjacent items are automatically collected
into term lists, even through constructs like for loops.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #for (year, product) in (
      "1978": "TeX",
      "1984": "LaTeX",
      "2019": "Typst",
    ) [/ #product: Born in #year.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/wkvQM6jeTkSTRoaT9Y0lSQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` item ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A term list item.

terms  .  item  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` term `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The term described by the list item.

####  ` description `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The description of the term.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Table  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/table/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Text  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/)

