  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Arguments ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/)

#  arguments

Captured arguments to a function.

##  Argument Sinks

Like built-in functions, custom functions can also take a variable number of
arguments. You can specify an _argument sink_ which collects all excess
arguments as ` ..sink ` . The resulting ` sink ` value is of the ` arguments `
type. It exposes methods to access the positional and named arguments.

    
    
    #let format(title, ..authors) = {
      let by = authors
        .pos()
        .join(", ", last: " and ")
    
      [*#title* \ _Written by #by;_]
    }
    
    #format("ArtosFlow", "Jane", "Joe")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DWzn69gGuCd1q_LVZvjEEgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Spreading

Inversely to an argument sink, you can _spread_ arguments, arrays and
dictionaries into a function call with the ` ..spread ` operator:

    
    
    #let array = (2, 3, 5)
    #calc.min(..array)
    #let dict = (fill: blue)
    #text(..dict)[Hello]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kcmqtH9qxq6Bg8ZwwKnMCQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Construct spreadable arguments in place.

This function behaves like ` let  args  (  ..  sink  )  =  sink ` .

arguments  (

..  any

)  -> [ arguments ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/)

    
    
    #let args = arguments(stroke: red, inset: 1em, [Body])
    #box(..args)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JbzK099-rqq0pkW-oHCQsgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` arguments `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The arguments to construct.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` at `

Returns the positional argument at the specified index, or the named argument
with the specified name.

If the key is an [ integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) , this is
equivalent to first calling [ ` pos `
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#definitions-pos) and then [ `
array.at ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-at "`array.at`") .
If it is a [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) , this is equivalent
to first calling [ ` named `
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#definitions-named) and then [ `
dictionary.at ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/#definitions-at
"`dictionary.at`") .

self  .  at  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` key `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index or name of the argument to get.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the key is invalid.

###  ` pos `

Returns the captured positional arguments as an array.

self  .  pos  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` named `

Returns the captured named arguments as a dictionary.

self  .  named  (

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Foundations  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Array  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

