  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

#  bytes

A sequence of bytes.

This is conceptually similar to an array of [ integers
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) between ` 0  ` and ` 255  ` , but
represented much more efficiently. You can iterate over it using a [ for loop
](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops) .

You can convert

  * a [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or an [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") of integers to bytes with the [ ` bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "`bytes`") constructor 
  * bytes to a string with the [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/ "`str`") constructor, with UTF-8 encoding 
  * bytes to an array of integers with the [ ` array ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "`array`") constructor 

When [ reading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/) data from a file, you can
decide whether to load it as a string or as raw bytes.

    
    
    #bytes((123, 160, 22, 0)) \
    #bytes("Hello ð")
    
    #let data = read(
      "rhino.png",
      encoding: none,
    )
    
    // Magic bytes.
    #array(data.slice(0, 4)) \
    #str(data.slice(1, 4))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/sJtYFgVyQkDZELEHje5ywwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to bytes.

  * Strings are encoded in UTF-8. 
  * Arrays of integers between ` 0  ` and ` 255  ` are converted directly. The dedicated byte representation is much more efficient than the array representation and thus typically used for large byte buffers (e.g. image data). 

bytes  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

    
    
    #bytes("Hello ð") \
    #bytes((123, 160, 22, 0))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PlfVajGmfDLMY6p8X4S3BwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to bytes.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` len `

The length in bytes.

self  .  len  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` at `

Returns the byte at the specified index. Returns the default value if the
index is out of bounds or fails with an error if no default value was
specified.

self  .  at  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index at which to retrieve the byte.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the index is out of bounds.

###  ` slice `

Extracts a subslice of the bytes. Fails with an error if the start or end
index is out of bounds.

self  .  slice  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  count  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The start index (inclusive).

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The end index (exclusive). If omitted, the whole slice until the end is
extracted.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of items to extract. This is equivalent to passing ` start + count
` as the ` end ` position. Mutually exclusive with ` end ` .

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Boolean  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Calculation  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/)

