  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

#  content

A piece of document content.

This type is at the heart of Typst. All markup you write and most [ functions
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) you call produce content values. You
can create a content value by enclosing markup in square brackets. This is
also how you pass content to functions.

##  Example

    
    
    Type of *Hello!* is
    #type([*Hello!*])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/X4qekl24YgH3SaXf1J0tagAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Content can be added with the ` + ` operator, [ joined together
](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) and multiplied with integers. Wherever
content is expected, you can also pass a [ string
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or ` none  ` .

##  Representation

Content consists of elements with fields. When constructing an element with
its _element function,_ you provide these fields as arguments and when you
have a content value, you can access its fields with [ field access syntax
](/docs/reference/scripting/#field-access) .

Some fields are required: These must be provided when constructing an element
and as a consequence, they are always available through field access on
content of that type. Required fields are marked as such in the documentation.

Most fields are optional: Like required fields, they can be passed to the
element function to configure them for a single element. However, these can
also be configured with [ set rules ](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules) to
apply them to all elements within a scope. Optional fields are only available
with field access syntax when they were explicitly passed to the element
function, not when they result from a set rule.

Each element has a default appearance. However, you can also completely
customize its appearance with a [ show rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-
rules) . The show rule is passed the element. It can access the element's
field and produce arbitrary content from it.

In the web app, you can hover over a content variable to see exactly which
elements the content is composed of and what fields they have. Alternatively,
you can inspect the output of the [ ` repr `
](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/ "`repr`") function.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` func `

The content's element function. This function can be used to create the
element contained in this content. It can be used in set and show rules for
the element. Can be compared with global functions to check whether you have a
specific kind of element.

self  .  func  (

)  -> [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

###  ` has `

Whether the content has the specified field.

self  .  has  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` field `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The field to look for.

###  ` at `

Access the specified field on the content. Returns the default value if the
field does not exist or fails with an error if no default value was specified.

self  .  at  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` field `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The field to access.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the field does not exist.

###  ` fields `

Returns the fields of this content.

self  .  fields  (

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

    
    
    #rect(
      width: 10cm,
      height: 10cm,
    ).fields()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zNlYUwJ_V8GS40gGav-GlwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` location `

The location of the content. This is only available on content returned by [
query ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "query") or provided by a [ show
rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) , for other content it will be `
none  ` . The resulting location can be used with [ counters
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) , [ state
](/docs/reference/introspection/state/ "state") and [ queries
](/docs/reference/introspection/query/) .

self  .  location  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Calculation  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Datetime  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/)

