  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

#  int

A whole number.

The number can be negative, zero, or positive. As Typst uses 64 bits to store
integers, integers cannot be smaller than ` -  9223372036854775808  ` or
larger than ` 9223372036854775807  ` .

The number can also be specified as hexadecimal, octal, or binary by starting
it with a zero followed by either ` x ` , ` o ` , or ` b ` .

You can convert a value to an integer with this type's constructor.

##  Example

    
    
    #(1 + 2) \
    #(2 - 5) \
    #(3 + 4 < 8)
    
    #0xff \
    #0o10 \
    #0b1001
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/wfpxRJDZrNeGDA3RjEgFJgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to an integer. Raises an error if there is an attempt to
produce an integer larger than the maximum 64-bit signed integer or smaller
than the minimum 64-bit signed integer.

  * Booleans are converted to ` 0 ` or ` 1 ` . 
  * Floats and decimals are truncated to the next 64-bit integer. 
  * Strings are parsed in base 10. 

int  (

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #int(false) \
    #int(true) \
    #int(2.7) \
    #int(decimal("3.8")) \
    #(int("27") + int("4"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4vDM_wHvGAGqziHd9y2LQQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to an integer.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` signum `

Calculates the sign of an integer.

  * If the number is positive, returns ` 1  ` . 
  * If the number is negative, returns ` -  1  ` . 
  * If the number is zero, returns ` 0  ` . 

self  .  signum  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #(5).signum() \
    #(-5).signum() \
    #(0).signum()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Vicm2VF6Z98sgjNZQYlaBgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` bit-not `

Calculates the bitwise NOT of an integer.

For the purposes of this function, the operand is treated as a signed integer
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-not  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #4.bit-not() \
    #(-1).bit-not()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3AYO-p6E-z3VLH4vNyWEKgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` bit-and `

Calculates the bitwise AND between two integers.

For the purposes of this function, the operands are treated as signed integers
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-and  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #128.bit-and(192)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/knwTrW-Xbj5sqbcdza7ewgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` rhs `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The right-hand operand of the bitwise AND.

###  ` bit-or `

Calculates the bitwise OR between two integers.

For the purposes of this function, the operands are treated as signed integers
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-or  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #64.bit-or(32)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zaVKMztfj-8VIfbLXeJFUAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` rhs `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The right-hand operand of the bitwise OR.

###  ` bit-xor `

Calculates the bitwise XOR between two integers.

For the purposes of this function, the operands are treated as signed integers
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-xor  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #64.bit-xor(96)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KUPqsOL5IXWcGSfAhFpL6wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` rhs `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The right-hand operand of the bitwise XOR.

###  ` bit-lshift `

Shifts the operand's bits to the left by the specified amount.

For the purposes of this function, the operand is treated as a signed integer
of 64 bits. An error will occur if the result is too large to fit in a 64-bit
integer.

self  .  bit-lshift  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #33.bit-lshift(2) \
    #(-1).bit-lshift(3)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kIVISyJsbGpK3k_fu59O2AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` shift `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The amount of bits to shift. Must not be negative.

###  ` bit-rshift `

Shifts the operand's bits to the right by the specified amount. Performs an
arithmetic shift by default (extends the sign bit to the left, such that
negative numbers stay negative), but that can be changed by the ` logical `
parameter.

For the purposes of this function, the operand is treated as a signed integer
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-rshift  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  logical  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #64.bit-rshift(2) \
    #(-8).bit-rshift(2) \
    #(-8).bit-rshift(2, logical: true)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gebaB-CZOzDtnvfjDfjtTgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` shift `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The amount of bits to shift. Must not be negative.

Shifts larger than 63 are allowed and will cause the return value to saturate.
For non-negative numbers, the return value saturates at ` 0  ` , while, for
negative numbers, it saturates at ` -  1  ` if ` logical ` is set to ` false
` , or ` 0  ` if it is ` true  ` . This behavior is consistent with just
applying this operation multiple times. Therefore, the shift will always
succeed.

####  ` logical `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Toggles whether a logical (unsigned) right shift should be performed instead
of arithmetic right shift. If this is ` true  ` , negative operands will not
preserve their sign bit, and bits which appear to the left after the shift
will be ` 0  ` . This parameter has no effect on non-negative operands.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` from-bytes `

Converts bytes to an integer.

int  .  from-bytes  (

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) ,  endian  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  signed  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #int.from-bytes(bytes((0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1))) \
    #int.from-bytes(bytes((1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)), endian: "big")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/I0LPQ0WUii0fthcD20cosAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` bytes `

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The bytes that should be converted to an integer.

Must be of length at most 8 so that the result fits into a 64-bit signed
integer.

####  ` endian `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The endianness of the conversion.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  big  " ` |  Big-endian byte order: The highest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
` "  little  " ` |  Little-endian byte order: The lowest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
  
Default: ` "little"  `

####  ` signed `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether the bytes should be treated as a signed integer. If this is ` true  `
and the most significant bit is set, the resulting number will negative.

Default: ` true  `

###  ` to-bytes `

Converts an integer to bytes.

self  .  to-bytes  (

endian  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  size  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

    
    
    #array(10000.to-bytes(endian: "big")) \
    #array(10000.to-bytes(size: 4))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/FF7gGW4eVOEhYjIZXy8BIgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` endian `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The endianness of the conversion.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  big  " ` |  Big-endian byte order: The highest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
` "  little  " ` |  Little-endian byte order: The lowest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
  
Default: ` "little"  `

####  ` size `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The size in bytes of the resulting bytes (must be at least zero). If the
integer is too large to fit in the specified size, the conversion will
truncate the remaining bytes based on the endianness. To keep the same
resulting value, if the endianness is big-endian, the truncation will happen
at the rightmost bytes. Otherwise, if the endianness is little-endian, the
truncation will happen at the leftmost bytes.

Be aware that if the integer is negative and the size is not enough to make
the number fit, when passing the resulting bytes to ` int.from-bytes ` , the
resulting number might be positive, as the most significant bit might not be
set to 1.

Default: ` 8  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Function  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Label  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)

