

# **Typst Docs Markdown**



# **main.md**

[ Learn what's new in Typst 0.12 ](https://typst.app/blog/2024/typst-0.12/)

[ ![Typst](/assets/images/typst.svg) ](/#start)

  * [ GitHub  ](https://github.com/typst/)
  * [ Discord  ](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe)
  * [ Mastodon  ](https://mastodon.social/@typst)
  * [ Bluesky  ](https://bsky.app/profile/typst.app)
  * [ LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/typst/)
  * [ Pricing ](/pricing/)
  * [ Docs ](/docs/)
  * [ Universe ](/universe/)
  * [ Forum ](https://forum.typst.app)
  * [ Sign in ](/signin/)
  * [ Sign up ](/signup)

#  Compose  
papers  
faster

Focus on your text and let Typst take care of layout and formatting.

[ Sign up for free and try it now! ](/signup) [ View on GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst)

![A mockup of the Typst editor.](/assets/images/mockup.png)

A more productive workflow for science.

Eduardo

â  First time testing the new project creating wizard, It's great, I love
it!  â

![User image of _submersion_](/assets/images/submersion-avatar.png)

[ _submersion_
](https://www.reddit.com/r/LaTeX/comments/zyuyfc/comment/j2ddt10/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)

â  A serious contender for the title of LaTeX successor â¨  â

![User image of Alistair](/assets/images/alistair-avatar.jpg)

Alistair

â  I started using the preview, and I love typst so much!  â

![User image of BlueTJ](/assets/images/bluetj-avatar.jpg)

BlueTJ

â  First impression: Damn, it feels smooth as heck.  â

![User image of Vallaris](/assets/images/vallaaris-avatar.png)

[ Vallaris
](https://www.reddit.com/r/LaTeX/comments/zyuyfc/comment/j2d8for/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)

â  My first impression is: It's really great!  â

Louis

â  UI: Ultra clean â¨, Docs: Very comprehensive.  â

##  Team Up With Templates

Typst supercharges templates: They react to your content and format everything
instantly while you type. Select from a wide range of  [ community templates
](/universe) or create your own!

###  Changed Conferences?

Switch the template in seconds, without touching your content.

[ ![A paper in the IEEE double column style, set in the TeX Gyre Termes
typeface.](/assets/images/ieee.png) ](/assets/images/ieee-large.png) [ ![A
paper in the Oxford Genetics double column style, set in the TeX Gyre Heros
typeface.](/assets/images/oxford.png) ](/assets/images/oxford-large.png) [ ![A
paper in the MDPI single column style with an information gutter. It is set in
the TeX Gyre Pagella typeface.](/assets/images/mdpi.png)
](/assets/images/mdpi-large.png)

IEEE  Oxford  MDPI

![A paragraph of text with colorful cursors, each applying different edits.
Below, there are the profile pictures of the three users who are logged
in.](/assets/images/collab.png)

##  Work With Your Peers

Whether in the classroom, the faculty office, or at home: Typst runs in your
browser, so everyone on the team can just start writing.

###  Level up your team.

Store shared documents in team workspaces to bring everyone in your working
group on the same page.

##  Why should I use Typst instead of ...

  * LaTeX 
  * Word 
  * Google Docs 

  * Typst... 
    * previews your changes instantly. 
    * provides clear, understandable error messages. 
    * has a consistent styling system for configuring everything from fonts and margins to the look of headings and lists. 
    * uses familiar programming constructs instead of hard-to-understand macros. 
  * With Typst, you can... 
    * easily collaborate in teams. 
    * use and create powerful templates that automatically format everything as you write. 
    * just change formatting later without going over the whole document by hand. 
    * enjoy higher-quality typographical output, including improved justification. 
  * With Typst, you... 
    * can create professional-looking documents. 
    * have a lot more functionality, including better math support, figure handling, and a proper table of contents. 
    * profit from powerful templates that automatically format everything as you write. 
    * impress with higher-quality typographical output, including improved justification. 

[ ![A page with a rocket taking of on the left and a essay on rocket
propulsion on the right.](/assets/images/rocket.png) ](/assets/images/rocket-
large.png)

##  For Rocket Scientists.  
And the rest of us, too.

Most preview users learned Typst in under 60 minutes. Nothing stands between
you and stunning papers.

###  Get started quickly

with the [ 4-step tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/) . With human-friendly error
messages, Typst always helps you out if there is a problem.

##  Need Full Control?

Anything templates can do, you can do yourself.

Leverage professional typesetting features to write and design any document.

  * One language for markup and code 
  * Powerful style recipes 
  * Stack and Grid layouts 
  * Sophisticated typography 
  * Regex-powered text transformation 
  * CSV and JSON capabilities 

Learn more...

##  Ready for Science

With Typst, you can set the figures, formulas, tables, bibliographies, and
plots you need to present your research.

![Examples of various elements frequently seen in scientific publications:
References and a Bibliography, a chart created from a CSV file, a sine wave
chart, a mathematical formula, and a
table.](/assets/images/readyforscience.png)
![](/assets/images/readyforscience.png)

##  Writing Formulas has Never Been Easier

Say goodbye to fidgety formula editors and antiquated syntax.

  * ` lim  _  (  x  -> oo  )  1  /  x = 0   
Â `

  * ` vec  (  1  ,  2  )  dot  vec  (  3  ,  4  )  = 11  `
  * ` { x  in  RR  | x  "is natural"  and  x < 10 }  `

Arrow from code to rendered equation.

  * Formula: Limes from x to infinity of 1 over x equals 0. 
  * Formula: Dot product of vector 1,2 and vector 3,4 equals 11. 
  * Formula: A set of all real numbers x where x is natural and less than 10. 

First example  Second example  Third example

##  Open Source

![Typst + GitHub](/assets/images/typst-github.svg)

Typst is Open Source! You can follow along with the development on  [ GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst) and discuss Typst on our  [ Discord server.
](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) With the  [ command line compiler
](https://github.com/typst/typst/releases) , you can always compile your
documents locally. No lock-in, ever.

##  There's more!

There is still [ so much more ](/docs/roadmap) we want to do with Typst.
Coming soon:

  * HTML export 
  * PDF/A and Tagged PDF 

##  Try Typst now!

Sign up to the web app or download the command line tool to start writing
locally.

[ Sign up for free and try it now! ](/signup) [ View on GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst)

We are two graduates from Berlin with a passion for software. Typst was born
out of our frustration with LaTeX. Not knowing what we were in for, we decided
to take matters into our own hands and started building.  [ Read our story.
](/about/)

  * [ Home ](/#start)
  * [ Pricing ](/pricing/)
  * [ Documentation ](/docs/)
  * [ Universe ](/universe/)
  * [ About Us ](/about/)
  * [ Contact Us ](/contact/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)
  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://typst.app/terms)
  * [ Legal (Impressum) ](/legal/)

  * [ Forum ](https://forum.typst.app)
  * [ Tools ](/tools/)
  * [ Blog ](/blog/)
  * [ GitHub ](https://github.com/typst/)
  * [ Discord ](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe)
  * [ Mastodon ](https://mastodon.social/@typst)
  * [ Bluesky ](https://bsky.app/profile/typst.app)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/typst/)
  * [ Instagram ](https://instagram.com/typstapp/)

Made in Berlin

![Previous image](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)

Close

![Next image](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)



# **docs.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Overview ](/docs/)

#  Overview

Welcome to Typst's documentation! Typst is a new markup-based typesetting
system for the sciences. It is designed to be an alternative both to advanced
tools like LaTeX and simpler tools like Word and Google Docs. Our goal with
Typst is to build a typesetting tool that is highly capable _and_ a pleasure
to use.

This documentation is split into two parts: A beginner-friendly tutorial that
introduces Typst through a practical use case and a comprehensive reference
that explains all of Typst's concepts and features.

We also invite you to join the community we're building around Typst. Typst is
still a very young project, so your feedback is more than valuable.

[ ![Circled play Icon](/assets/icons/32-tutorial-c.svg) **Tutorial** Step-by-
step guide to help you get started.  ](/docs/tutorial) [ ![Circled information
icon](/assets/icons/32-reference-c.svg) **Reference** Details about all
syntax, concepts, types, and functions.  ](/docs/reference)



# **docs/reference.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)

#  Reference

This reference documentation is a comprehensive guide to all of Typst's
syntax, concepts, types, and functions. If you are completely new to Typst, we
recommend starting with the [ tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/ "tutorial") and then
coming back to the reference to learn more about Typst's features as you need
them.

##  Language

The reference starts with a language part that gives an overview over [
Typst's syntax ](/docs/reference/syntax/) and contains information about
concepts involved in [ styling documents, ](/docs/reference/styling/) using [
Typst's scripting capabilities. ](/docs/reference/scripting/)

##  Functions

The second part includes chapters on all functions used to insert, style,
transform, and layout content in Typst documents. Each function is documented
with a description of its purpose, a list of its parameters, and examples of
how to use it.

The final part of the reference explains all functions that are used within
Typst's code mode to manipulate and transform data. Just as in the previous
part, each function is documented with a description of its purpose, a list of
its parameters, and examples of how to use it.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Making a Template  Previous page
](/docs/tutorial/making-a-template/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Syntax  Next page  ](/docs/reference/syntax/)



# **docs/community.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Community ](/docs/community/)

#  Community

Hey and welcome to the Community page! We're so glad you're here. Typst is
developed by an early-stage startup and it is still early days, but it would
be pointless without people like you who are interested in it.

We would love to not only hear from you but to also provide spaces where you
can discuss any topic around Typst, typesetting, writing, the sciences, and
typography with other likeminded people.

**Our[ Forum ](https://forum.typst.app/) is the best place to get answers for
questions on Typst and to show off your creations. ** If you would like to
chat with the community and shape the future development of Typst, we would
like to also invite you to our [ Discord server
](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) . We coordinate our Open-Source work there,
but you can also iterate on Typst projects and discuss off-topic things with
the community members. Both the Forum and the Discord server are open for
everyone. Of course, you are also very welcome to connect with us on social
media ( [ Mastodon ](https://mastodon.social/@typst) , [ Bluesky
](https://bsky.app/profile/typst.app) , [ Instagram
](https://instagram.com/typstapp/) , [ LinkedIn
](https://linkedin.com/company/typst) , and [ GitHub
](https://github.com/typst) ).

##  What to share?

For our community, we want to foster versatility and inclusivity. You are
welcome to post about any topic that you think would interest other community
members, but if you need a little inspiration, here are a few ideas:

  * Share and discuss your thoughts and ideas for new features or improvements you'd like to see in Typst 
  * Showcase documents you've created with Typst, or share any unique or creative ways you've used the platform 
  * Share importable files or templates that you use to style your documents 
  * Alert us of bugs you encounter while using Typst 

##  Following the development

Typst is still under very active development and breaking changes can occur at
any point. The compiler is developed in the open on [ GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst) .

We will update the members of our Discord server and our social media
followers when new features become available. We'll also update you on the
development progress of large features.

##  How to support Typst

If you want to support Typst, there are multiple ways to do that! You can [
contribute to the code ](https://github.com/typst/typst) or [ translate the
strings in Typst
](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Atypst%2Ftypst+impl+LocalName+for&type=code)
to your native language if it's not supported yet. You can also help us by [
subscribing to the paid tier of our web app ](https://typst.app/pricing) or [
sponsoring our Open Source efforts! ](https://github.com/sponsors/typst)
Multiple recurring sponsorship tiers are available and all of them come with a
set of goodies. No matter how you contribute, thank you for your support!

##  Community Rules

We want to make our community a safe and inclusive space for everyone.
Therefore, we will not tolerate any sexual harassment, sexism, political
attacks, derogatory language or personal insults, racism, doxing, and other
inappropriate behaviour. We pledge to remove members that are in violation of
these rules. [ Contact us ](https://typst.app/contact/) if you think another
community member acted inappropriately towards you. All complaints will be
reviewed and investigated promptly and fairly.

In addition, our [ privacy policy ](https://typst.app/privacy/) applies on all
community spaces operated by us, such as the Discord server. Please also note
that the terms of service and privacy policies of the respective services
apply.

##  See you soon!

Thanks again for learning more about Typst. We would be delighted to meet you
on our [ Discord server ](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) !

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Roadmap  Previous page
](/docs/roadmap/)



# **docs/changelog.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)

#  Changelog

Learn what has changed in the latest Typst releases and move your documents
forward. This section documents all changes to Typst since its initial public
release.

##  Versions

  * [ Typst 0.12.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.12.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.11.1 ](/docs/changelog/0.11.1/)
  * [ Typst 0.11.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.11.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.10.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.10.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.9.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.9.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.8.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.8.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.7.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.7.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.6.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.6.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.5.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.5.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.4.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.4.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.3.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.3.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.2.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.2.0/)
  * [ Typst 0.1.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.1.0/)
  * [ Earlier ](/docs/changelog/earlier/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Table guide  Previous page
](/docs/guides/table-guide/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.12.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.12.0/)



# **docs/tutorial.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/)

#  Tutorial

Welcome to Typst's tutorial! In this tutorial, you will learn how to write and
format documents in Typst. We will start with everyday tasks and gradually
introduce more advanced features. This tutorial does not assume prior
knowledge of Typst, other markup languages, or programming. We do assume that
you know how to edit a text file.

The best way to start is to sign up to the Typst app for free and follow along
with the steps below. The app gives you instant preview, syntax highlighting
and helpful autocompletions. Alternatively, you can follow along in your local
text editor with the [ open-source CLI ](https://github.com/typst/typst) .

##  When to use Typst

Before we get started, let's check what Typst is and when to use it. Typst is
a markup language for typesetting documents. It is designed to be easy to
learn, fast, and versatile. Typst takes text files with markup in them and
outputs PDFs.

Typst is a good choice for writing any long form text such as essays,
articles, scientific papers, books, reports, and homework assignments.
Moreover, Typst is a great fit for any documents containing mathematical
notation, such as papers in the math, physics, and engineering fields.
Finally, due to its strong styling and automation features, it is an excellent
choice for any set of documents that share a common style, such as a book
series.

##  What you will learn

This tutorial has four chapters. Each chapter builds on the previous one. Here
is what you will learn in each of them:

  1. [ Writing in Typst: ](/docs/tutorial/writing-in-typst/) Learn how to write text and insert images, equations, and other elements. 
  2. [ Formatting: ](/docs/tutorial/formatting/) Learn how to adjust the formatting of your document, including font size, heading styles, and more. 
  3. [ Advanced Styling: ](/docs/tutorial/advanced-styling/) Create a complex page layout for a scientific paper with typographic features such as an author list and run-in headings. 
  4. [ Making a Template: ](/docs/tutorial/making-a-template/) Build a reusable template from the paper you created in the previous chapter. 

We hope you'll enjoy Typst!

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Overview  Previous page  ](/docs/)
[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Writing in Typst  Next page
](/docs/tutorial/writing-in-typst/)



# **docs/roadmap.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Roadmap ](/docs/roadmap/)

#  Roadmap

This page lists planned features for the Typst language, compiler, library and
web app. Since priorities and development realities change, this roadmap is
not set in stone. Features that are listed here will not necessarily be
implemented and features that will be implemented might be missing here.
Moreover, this roadmap only lists larger, more fundamental features and bugs.

Are you missing something on the roadmap? Typst relies on your feedback as a
user to plan for and prioritize new features. Get started by filing a new
issue on [ GitHub ](https://github.com/typst/typst/issues) or discuss your
feature request with the [ community ](https://typst.app/docs/community) .

##  Language and Compiler

  * **Styling**

    * Support for revoking style rules 
    * Ancestry selectors (e.g., within) 
    * ~~Fix show rule recursion crashes~~
    * ~~Fix show-set issues~~
  * **Scripting**

    * Function for debug logging 
    * Fix issues with paths being strings 
    * Custom types (that work with set and show rules) 
    * Type hints 
    * Function hoisting (if feasible) 
    * ~~Data loading functions~~
    * ~~Support for compiler warnings~~
    * ~~Types as first-class values~~
    * ~~More fields and methods on primitives~~
    * ~~WebAssembly plugins~~
    * ~~Get values of set rules~~
    * ~~Replace locate, etc. with unified context system~~
    * ~~Allow expressions as dictionary keys~~
    * ~~Package management~~
  * **Model**

    * Fix issues with numbering patterns 
    * Support a path or bytes in places that currently only support paths, superseding ` .decode ` scoped functions 
    * Better support for custom referenceable things 
    * Richer built-in outline customization 
    * Enum continuation 
    * ~~Bibliography and citation customization via CSL (Citation Style Language)~~
    * ~~Relative counters, e.g. for figure numbering per section~~
  * **Text**

    * Font fallback warnings 
    * Bold, italic, and smallcaps synthesis 
    * Variable fonts support 
    * Ruby and Warichu 
    * Kashida justification 
    * ~~Support for basic CJK text layout rules~~
    * ~~Fix SVG font fallback~~
    * ~~Themes for raw text and more/custom syntaxes~~
  * **Math**

    * Fix syntactic quirks 
    * Fix single letter strings 
    * Fix font handling 
    * Fix attachment parsing priorities 
    * Provide more primitives 
    * Improve equation numbering 
    * Big fractions 
  * **Layout**

    * Fix footnote issues 
    * Fix issues with list (in particular baselines & alignment) 
    * Support for "sticky" blocks that stay with the next one 
    * Improve widow & orphan prevention 
    * Expand floating layout (e.g. over two columns) 
    * Support for side-floats and other "collision" layouts 
    * Better support for more canvas-like layouts 
    * Unified layout primitives across normal content and math 
    * Page adjustment from within flow 
    * Chained layout regions 
    * Grid-based typesetting 
    * Balanced columns 
    * Drop caps 
    * End notes, maybe margin notes 
    * ~~Footnotes~~
    * ~~Basic floating layout~~
    * ~~Row span and column span in table~~
    * ~~Per-cell table stroke customization~~
  * **Visualize**

    * Arrows 
    * Better path drawing, possibly path operations 
    * Color management 
    * ~~More configurable strokes~~
    * ~~Gradients~~
    * ~~Patterns~~
  * **Introspection**

    * Support for freezing content, so that e.g. numbers in it remain the same if it appears multiple times 
  * **Export**

    * PDF/A support 
    * HTML export 
    * Tagged PDF for Accessibility 
    * PDF/X support 
    * EPUB export 
    * ~~PNG export~~
    * ~~SVG export~~
    * ~~Support for transparency in PDF~~
    * ~~Fix issues with SVGs in PDF~~
    * ~~Fix emoji export in PDF~~ (not yet released) 
    * ~~Selectable text in SVGs in PDF~~ (not yet released) 
    * ~~Better font subsetting for smaller PDFs~~ (not yet released) 
  * **CLI**

    * Support for downloading fonts on-demand automatically 
    * ~~` typst query ` for querying document elements ~~
    * ~~` typst init ` for creating a project from a template ~~
    * ~~` typst update ` for self-updating the CLI ~~
  * **Tooling**

    * Documentation generator and doc comments 
    * Autoformatter 
    * Linter 
  * **Performance**

    * Reduce memory usage 
    * ~~Optimize runtime of optimal paragraph layout~~ (not yet released) 
    * ~~Parallelize layout engine~~ (not yet released) 
  * **Development**

    * Benchmarking 
    * Better contributor documentation 

##  Web App

  * **Editing**

    * Smarter & more action buttons 
    * Inline documentation 
    * Preview autocomplete entry 
    * Color Picker 
    * Symbol picker 
    * Basic, built-in image editor (cropping, etc.) 
    * GUI inspector for editing function calls 
    * Cursor in preview 
    * ~~Hover tooltips for debugging~~
    * ~~Scroll to cursor position in preview~~
    * ~~Folders in projects~~
    * ~~Outline panel~~
    * ~~More export options~~
    * ~~Preview in a separate window~~
    * ~~Sync literature with Zotero and Mendely~~
    * ~~Paste modal~~
    * ~~Improve panel~~
  * **Writing**

    * Word count 
    * Structure view 
    * Text completion by LLM 
    * ~~Spell check~~
  * **Collaboration**

    * Change tracking 
    * Version history 
    * ~~Chat-like comments~~
    * ~~Git integration~~
  * **Project management**

    * Drag-and-drop for projects 
    * Template generation by LLM 
    * ~~LaTeX, Word, Markdown import~~
    * ~~Thumbnails for projects~~
  * **Settings**

    * Keyboard shortcuts configuration 
    * Better project settings 
    * Avatar Cropping 
    * ~~System Theme setting~~
  * **Other**

    * Offline PWA 
    * Mobile improvements 
    * Two-Factor Authentication 
    * Advanced search in projects 
    * Private packages in teams 
    * ~~LDAP Single sign-on~~
    * ~~Compiler version picker~~
    * ~~Presentation mode~~
    * ~~Support for On-Premises deployment~~
    * ~~Typst Universe~~

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Earlier  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/earlier/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Community  Next page  ](/docs/community/)



# **docs/guides.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Guides ](/docs/guides/)

#  Guides

Welcome to the Guides section! Here, you'll find helpful material for specific
user groups or use cases. Currently, two guides are available: An introduction
to Typst for LaTeX users, and a detailed look at page setup. Feel free to
propose other topics for guides!

##  List of Guides

  * [ Guide for LaTeX users ](/docs/guides/guide-for-latex-users/)
  * [ Page setup guide ](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/)
  * [ Table guide ](/docs/guides/table-guide/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) YAML  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/yaml/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Guide for LaTeX users  Next page  ](/docs/guides/guide-for-latex-
users/)



# **docs/tutorial/writing-in-typst.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Writing in Typst ](/docs/tutorial/writing-in-typst/)

#  Writing in Typst

Let's get started! Suppose you got assigned to write a technical report for
university. It will contain prose, maths, headings, and figures. To get
started, you create a new project on the Typst app. You'll be taken to the
editor where you see two panels: A source panel where you compose your
document and a preview panel where you see the rendered document.

![Typst app screenshot](/assets/docs/1-writing-app.png)

You already have a good angle for your report in mind. So let's start by
writing the introduction. Enter some text in the editor panel. You'll notice
that the text immediately appears on the previewed page.

    
    
    In this report, we will explore the
    various factors that influence fluid
    dynamics in glaciers and how they
    contribute to the formation and
    behaviour of these natural structures.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ePl1U-2a7w8qkmb3CLl_oAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

_Throughout this tutorial, we'll show code examples like this one. Just like
in the app, the first panel contains markup and the second panel shows a
preview. We shrunk the page to fit the examples so you can see what's going
on._

The next step is to add a heading and emphasize some text. Typst uses simple
markup for the most common formatting tasks. To add a heading, enter the ` = `
character and to emphasize some text with italics, enclose it in `
_underscores_  ` .

    
    
    = Introduction
    In this report, we will explore the
    various factors that influence _fluid
    dynamics_ in glaciers and how they
    contribute to the formation and
    behaviour of these natural structures.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/p75v-z7QqVChplB2N8HZfwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

That was easy! To add a new paragraph, just add a blank line in between two
lines of text. If that paragraph needs a subheading, produce it by typing ` ==
` instead of ` = ` . The number of ` = ` characters determines the nesting
level of the heading.

Now we want to list a few of the circumstances that influence glacier
dynamics. To do that, we use a numbered list. For each item of the list, we
type a ` + ` character at the beginning of the line. Typst will automatically
number the items.

    
    
    + The climate
    + The topography
    + The geology
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/U3IHQbhSNQ8ndkXIv_gPrgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If we wanted to add a bulleted list, we would use the ` - ` character instead
of the ` + ` character. We can also nest lists: For example, we can add a sub-
list to the first item of the list above by indenting it.

    
    
    + The climate
      - Temperature
      - Precipitation
    + The topography
    + The geology
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xmS-BPiM_gDHkWk9_uhE_gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Adding a figure

You think that your report would benefit from a figure. Let's add one. Typst
supports images in the formats PNG, JPEG, GIF, and SVG. To add an image file
to your project, first open the _file panel_ by clicking the box icon in the
left sidebar. Here, you can see a list of all files in your project.
Currently, there is only one: The main Typst file you are writing in. To
upload another file, click the button with the arrow in the top-right corner.
This opens the upload dialog, in which you can pick files to upload from your
computer. Select an image file for your report.

![Upload dialog](/assets/docs/1-writing-upload.png)

We have seen before that specific symbols (called _markup_ ) have specific
meaning in Typst. We can use ` = ` , ` - ` , ` + ` , and ` _ ` to create
headings, lists and emphasized text, respectively. However, having a special
symbol for everything we want to insert into our document would soon become
cryptic and unwieldy. For this reason, Typst reserves markup symbols only for
the most common things. Everything else is inserted with _functions._ For our
image to show up on the page, we use Typst's [ ` image `
](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "`image`") function.

    
    
    #image("glacier.jpg")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KwKlYCVb2uFZqZ8abt3-ggAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In general, a function produces some output for a set of _arguments_ . When
you _call_ a function within markup, you provide the arguments and Typst
inserts the result (the function's _return value_ ) into the document. In our
case, the ` image ` function takes one argument: The path to the image file.
To call a function in markup, we first need to type the ` # ` character,
immediately followed by the name of the function. Then, we enclose the
arguments in parentheses. Typst recognizes many different data types within
argument lists. Our file path is a short [ string of text
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) , so we need to enclose it in double
quotes.

The inserted image uses the whole width of the page. To change that, pass the
` width ` argument to the ` image ` function. This is a _named_ argument and
therefore specified as a ` name: value ` pair. If there are multiple
arguments, they are separated by commas, so we first need to put a comma
behind the path.

    
    
    #image("glacier.jpg", width: 70%)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/lpadKIOzcEsf_MGoSeZghAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The ` width ` argument is a [ relative length
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) . In our case, we specified a percentage,
determining that the image shall take up ` 70%  ` of the page's width. We also
could have specified an absolute value like ` 1cm  ` or ` 0.7in  ` .

Just like text, the image is now aligned at the left side of the page by
default. It's also lacking a caption. Let's fix that by using the [ figure
](/docs/reference/model/figure/ "figure") function. This function takes the
figure's contents as a positional argument and an optional caption as a named
argument.

Within the argument list of the ` figure ` function, Typst is already in code
mode. This means, you now have to remove the hash before the image function
call. The hash is only needed directly in markup (to disambiguate text from
function calls).

The caption consists of arbitrary markup. To give markup to a function, we
enclose it in square brackets. This construct is called a _content block._

    
    
    #figure(
      image("glacier.jpg", width: 70%),
      caption: [
        _Glaciers_ form an important part
        of the earth's climate system.
      ],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/v5OnReUO8fD5Rfj2aJZVyQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You continue to write your report and now want to reference the figure. To do
that, first attach a label to figure. A label uniquely identifies an element
in your document. Add one after the figure by enclosing some name in angle
brackets. You can then reference the figure in your text by writing an ` @  `
symbol followed by that name. Headings and equations can also be labelled to
make them referenceable.

    
    
    Glaciers as the one shown in
    @glaciers will cease to exist if
    we don't take action soon!
    
    #figure(
      image("glacier.jpg", width: 70%),
      caption: [
        _Glaciers_ form an important part
        of the earth's climate system.
      ],
    ) <glaciers>
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/cwZ12iQ39B4L-_wQwhO2TAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

So far, we've passed content blocks (markup in square brackets) and strings
(text in double quotes) to our functions. Both seem to contain text. What's
the difference?

A content block can contain text, but also any other kind of markup, function
calls, and more, whereas a string is really just a _sequence of characters_
and nothing else.

For example, the image function expects a path to an image file. It would not
make sense to pass, e.g., a paragraph of text or another image as the image's
path parameter. That's why only strings are allowed here. On the contrary,
strings work wherever content is expected because text is a valid kind of
content.

##  Adding a bibliography

As you write up your report, you need to back up some of your claims. You can
add a bibliography to your document with the [ ` bibliography `
](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/ "`bibliography`") function. This
function expects a path to a bibliography file.

Typst's native bibliography format is [ Hayagriva
](https://github.com/typst/hayagriva/blob/main/docs/file-format.md) , but for
compatibility you can also use BibLaTeX files. As your classmate has already
done a literature survey and sent you a ` .bib ` file, you'll use that one.
Upload the file through the file panel to access it in Typst.

Once the document contains a bibliography, you can start citing from it.
Citations use the same syntax as references to a label. As soon as you cite a
source for the first time, it will appear in the bibliography section of your
document. Typst supports different citation and bibliography styles. Consult
the [ reference ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/#parameters-style) for
more details.

    
    
    = Methods
    We follow the glacier melting models
    established in @glacier-melt.
    
    #bibliography("works.bib")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QGPHT14ksdea0r_8vy01WAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Maths

After fleshing out the methods section, you move on to the meat of the
document: Your equations. Typst has built-in mathematical typesetting and uses
its own math notation. Let's start with a simple equation. We wrap it in ` $ `
signs to let Typst know it should expect a mathematical expression:

    
    
    The equation $Q = rho A v + C$
    defines the glacial flow rate.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_u5BjLoMFBZU2zg1OWULdgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The equation is typeset inline, on the same line as the surrounding text. If
you want to have it on its own line instead, you should insert a single space
at its start and end:

    
    
    The flow rate of a glacier is
    defined by the following equation:
    
    $ Q = rho A v + C $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/GXI0mvGOqqSC165iRTK-QwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

We can see that Typst displayed the single letters ` Q ` , ` A ` , ` v ` , and
` C ` as-is, while it translated ` rho ` into a Greek letter. Math mode will
always show single letters verbatim. Multiple letters, however, are
interpreted as symbols, variables, or function names. To imply a
multiplication between single letters, put spaces between them.

If you want to have a variable that consists of multiple letters, you can
enclose it in quotes:

    
    
    The flow rate of a glacier is given
    by the following equation:
    
    $ Q = rho A v + "time offset" $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JSaojGBiKH-FLbIYqeWSgAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You'll also need a sum formula in your paper. We can use the ` sum ` symbol
and then specify the range of the summation in sub- and superscripts:

    
    
    Total displaced soil by glacial flow:
    
    $ 7.32 beta +
      sum_(i=0)^nabla Q_i / 2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/rTDyTGxJlXKPRHJub3ALRgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

To add a subscript to a symbol or variable, type a ` _ ` character and then
the subscript. Similarly, use the ` ^ ` character for a superscript. If your
sub- or superscript consists of multiple things, you must enclose them in
round parentheses.

The above example also showed us how to insert fractions: Simply put a ` / `
character between the numerator and the denominator and Typst will
automatically turn it into a fraction. Parentheses are smartly resolved, so
you can enter your expression as you would into a calculator and Typst will
replace parenthesized sub-expressions with the appropriate notation.

    
    
    Total displaced soil by glacial flow:
    
    $ 7.32 beta +
      sum_(i=0)^nabla
        (Q_i (a_i - epsilon)) / 2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HgeB2Bx5Lh3a5NPfF6WEdwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Not all math constructs have special syntax. Instead, we use functions, just
like the ` image ` function we have seen before. For example, to insert a
column vector, we can use the [ ` vec ` ](/docs/reference/math/vec/) function.
Within math mode, function calls don't need to start with the ` # ` character.

    
    
    $ v := vec(x_1, x_2, x_3) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nj0pMnkuoX2t5FZ3_x6YKwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Some functions are only available within math mode. For example, the [ ` cal `
](/docs/reference/math/variants/#functions-cal) function is used to typeset
calligraphic letters commonly used for sets. The [ math section of the
reference ](/docs/reference/math/) provides a complete list of all functions
that math mode makes available.

One more thing: Many symbols, such as the arrow, have a lot of variants. You
can select among these variants by appending a dot and a modifier name to a
symbol's name:

    
    
    $ a arrow.squiggly b $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0GgQitNz41j-75F3FS6iAwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This notation is also available in markup mode, but the symbol name must be
preceded with ` #sym. ` there. See the [ symbols section
](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/) for a list of all available symbols.

##  Review

You have now seen how to write a basic document in Typst. You learned how to
emphasize text, write lists, insert images, align content, and typeset
mathematical expressions. You also learned about Typst's functions. There are
many more kinds of content that Typst lets you insert into your document, such
as [ tables ](/docs/reference/model/table/) , [ shapes
](/docs/reference/visualize/) , and [ code blocks ](/docs/reference/text/raw/)
. You can peruse the [ reference ](/docs/reference/ "reference") to learn more
about these and other features.

For the moment, you have completed writing your report. You have already saved
a PDF by clicking on the download button in the top right corner. However, you
think the report could look a bit less plain. In the next section, we'll learn
how to customize the look of our document.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Tutorial  Previous page
](/docs/tutorial/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Formatting  Next
page  ](/docs/tutorial/formatting/)



# **docs/tutorial/advanced-styling.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Advanced Styling ](/docs/tutorial/advanced-styling/)

#  Advanced Styling

In the previous two chapters of this tutorial, you have learned how to write a
document in Typst and how to change its formatting. The report you wrote
throughout the last two chapters got a straight A and your supervisor wants to
base a conference paper on it! The report will of course have to comply with
the conference's style guide. Let's see how we can achieve that.

Before we start, let's create a team, invite your supervisor and add them to
the team. You can do this by going back to the app dashboard with the back
icon in the top left corner of the editor. Then, choose the plus icon in the
left toolbar and create a team. Finally, click on the new team and go to its
settings by clicking 'manage team' next to the team name. Now you can invite
your supervisor by email.

![The team settings](/assets/docs/3-advanced-team-settings.png)

Next, move your project into the team: Open it, going to its settings by
choosing the gear icon in the left toolbar and selecting your new team from
the owners dropdown. Don't forget to save your changes!

Now, your supervisor can also edit the project and you can both see the
changes in real time. You can join our [ Discord server
](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) to find other users and try teams with them!

##  The conference guidelines

The layout guidelines are available on the conference website. Let's take a
look at them:

  * The font should be an 11pt serif font 
  * The title should be in 17pt and bold 
  * The paper contains a single-column abstract and two-column main text 
  * The abstract should be centered 
  * The main text should be justified 
  * First level section headings should be 13pt, centered, and rendered in small capitals 
  * Second level headings are run-ins, italicized and have the same size as the body text 
  * Finally, the pages should be US letter sized, numbered in the center of the footer and the top right corner of each page should contain the title of the paper 

We already know how to do many of these things, but for some of them, we'll
need to learn some new tricks.

##  Writing the right set rules

Let's start by writing some set rules for the document.

    
    
    #set page(
      paper: "us-letter",
      header: align(right)[
        A fluid dynamic model for
        glacier flow
      ],
      numbering: "1",
    )
    #set par(justify: true)
    #set text(
      font: "Libertinus Serif",
      size: 11pt,
    )
    
    #lorem(600)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/p6Vtj1ockTIzscSwa5_kewAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You are already familiar with most of what is going on here. We set the text
size to ` 11pt  ` and the font to Libertinus Serif. We also enable paragraph
justification and set the page size to US letter.

The ` header ` argument is new: With it, we can provide content to fill the
top margin of every page. In the header, we specify our paper's title as
requested by the conference style guide. We use the ` align ` function to
align the text to the right.

Last but not least is the ` numbering ` argument. Here, we can provide a [
numbering pattern ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) that defines how to
number the pages. By setting into to ` "1"  ` , Typst only displays the bare
page number. Setting it to ` "(1/1)"  ` would have displayed the current page
and total number of pages surrounded by parentheses. And we could even have
provided a completely custom function here to format things to our liking.

##  Creating a title and abstract

Now, let's add a title and an abstract. We'll start with the title. We center
align it and increase its font weight by enclosing it in ` *stars*  ` .

    
    
    #align(center, text(17pt)[
      *A fluid dynamic model
      for glacier flow*
    ])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/EYkMw9AAwHWkDqrGblkKBgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This looks right. We used the ` text ` function to override the previous text
set rule locally, increasing the size to 17pt for the function's argument.
Let's also add the author list: Since we are writing this paper together with
our supervisor, we'll add our own and their name.

    
    
    #grid(
      columns: (1fr, 1fr),
      align(center)[
        Therese Tungsten \
        Artos Institute \
        #link("mailto:tung@artos.edu")
      ],
      align(center)[
        Dr. John Doe \
        Artos Institute \
        #link("mailto:doe@artos.edu")
      ]
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Iwl_3LT7ijX6dcpL71YOWAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The two author blocks are laid out next to each other. We use the [ ` grid `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/ "`grid`") function to create this layout. With
a grid, we can control exactly how large each column is and which content goes
into which cell. The ` columns ` argument takes an array of [ relative lengths
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or [ fractions
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) . In this case, we passed it two equal
fractional sizes, telling it to split the available space into two equal
columns. We then passed two content arguments to the grid function. The first
with our own details, and the second with our supervisors'. We again use the `
align ` function to center the content within the column. The grid takes an
arbitrary number of content arguments specifying the cells. Rows are added
automatically, but they can also be manually sized with the ` rows ` argument.

Now, let's add the abstract. Remember that the conference wants the abstract
to be set ragged and centered.

    
    
    ...
    
    #align(center)[
      #set par(justify: false)
      *Abstract* \
      #lorem(80)
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4IdrVTeq86rbgvB-RNog6gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Well done! One notable thing is that we used a set rule within the content
argument of ` align ` to turn off justification for the abstract. This does
not affect the remainder of the document even though it was specified after
the first set rule because content blocks _scope_ styling. Anything set within
a content block will only affect the content within that block.

Another tweak could be to save the paper title in a variable, so that we do
not have to type it twice, for header and title. We can do that with the ` let
` keyword:

    
    
    #let title = [
      A fluid dynamic model
      for glacier flow
    ]
    
    ...
    
    #set page(
      header: align(
        right + horizon,
        title
      ),
      ...
    )
    
    #align(center, text(17pt)[
      *#title*
    ])
    
    ...
    
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ZKsZ2Eei-RUgPTLeJrMEYgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

After we bound the content to the ` title ` variable, we can use it in
functions and also within markup (prefixed by ` # ` , like functions). This
way, if we decide on another title, we can easily change it in one place.

##  Adding columns and headings

The paper above unfortunately looks like a wall of lead. To fix that, let's
add some headings and switch our paper to a two-column layout. Fortunately,
that's easy to do: We just need to amend our ` page ` set rule with the `
columns ` argument.

By adding ` columns:  2  ` to the argument list, we have wrapped the whole
document in two columns. However, that would also affect the title and authors
overview. To keep them spanning the whole page, we can wrap them in a function
call to [ ` place ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/) . Place expects an
alignment and the content it should place as positional arguments. Using the
named ` scope ` argument, we can decide if the items should be placed relative
to the current column or its parent (the page). There is one more thing to
configure: If no other arguments are provided, ` place ` takes its content out
of the flow of the document and positions it over the other content without
affecting the layout of other content in its container:

    
    
    #place(
      top + center,
      rect(fill: black),
    )
    #lorem(30)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/30s7cU9X36lW286rJXE3RwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If we hadn't used ` place ` here, the square would be in its own line, but
here it overlaps the few lines of text following it. Likewise, that text acts
like as if there was no square. To change this behavior, we can pass the
argument ` float:  true  ` to ensure that the space taken up by the placed
item at the top or bottom of the page is not occupied by any other content.

    
    
    #set page(
      paper: "us-letter",
      header: align(
        right + horizon,
        title
      ),
      numbering: "1",
      columns: 2,
    )
    
    #place(
      top + center,
      float: true,
      scope: "parent",
      clearance: 2em,
    )[
      ...
    
      #par(justify: false)[
        *Abstract* \
        #lorem(80)
      ]
    ]
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(300)
    
    = Related Work
    #lorem(200)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dAJVP8paZmMvnK23cMA_0AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In this example, we also used the ` clearance ` argument of the ` place `
function to provide the space between it and the body instead of using the [ `
v ` ](/docs/reference/layout/v/) function. We can also remove the explicit `
align  (  center  ,  ..  )  ` calls around the various parts since they
inherit the center alignment from the placement.

Now there is only one thing left to do: Style our headings. We need to make
them centered and use small capitals. Because the ` heading ` function does
not offer a way to set any of that, we need to write our own heading show
rule.

    
    
    #show heading: it => [
      #set align(center)
      #set text(13pt, weight: "regular")
      #block(smallcaps(it.body))
    ]
    
    ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ZJxJWdUySZNKlj1_Vn1NWgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This looks great! We used a show rule that applies to all headings. We give it
a function that gets passed the heading as a parameter. That parameter can be
used as content but it also has some fields like ` title ` , ` numbers ` , and
` level ` from which we can compose a custom look. Here, we are center-
aligning, setting the font weight to ` "regular"  ` because headings are bold
by default, and use the [ ` smallcaps ` ](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/
"`smallcaps`") function to render the heading's title in small capitals.

The only remaining problem is that all headings look the same now. The
"Motivation" and "Problem Statement" subsections ought to be italic run in
headers, but right now, they look indistinguishable from the section headings.
We can fix that by using a ` where ` selector on our set rule: This is a [
method ](/docs/reference/scripting/#methods) we can call on headings (and
other elements) that allows us to filter them by their level. We can use it to
differentiate between section and subsection headings:

    
    
    #show heading.where(
      level: 1
    ): it => block(width: 100%)[
      #set align(center)
      #set text(13pt, weight: "regular")
      #smallcaps(it.body)
    ]
    
    #show heading.where(
      level: 2
    ): it => text(
      size: 11pt,
      weight: "regular",
      style: "italic",
      it.body + [.],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/eBNymJDskGFkYVAXkF9cuAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This looks great! We wrote two show rules that each selectively apply to the
first and second level headings. We used a ` where ` selector to filter the
headings by their level. We then rendered the subsection headings as run-ins.
We also automatically add a period to the end of the subsection headings.

Let's review the conference's style guide:

  * The font should be an 11pt serif font â 
  * The title should be in 17pt and bold â 
  * The paper contains a single-column abstract and two-column main text â 
  * The abstract should be centered â 
  * The main text should be justified â 
  * First level section headings should be centered, rendered in small caps and in 13pt â 
  * Second level headings are run-ins, italicized and have the same size as the body text â 
  * Finally, the pages should be US letter sized, numbered in the center and the top right corner of each page should contain the title of the paper â 

We are now in compliance with all of these styles and can submit the paper to
the conference! The finished paper looks like this:

![The finished paper](/assets/docs/3-advanced-paper.png)

##  Review

You have now learned how to create headers and footers, how to use functions
and scopes to locally override styles, how to create more complex layouts with
the [ ` grid ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/ "`grid`") function and how to
write show rules for individual functions, and the whole document. You also
learned how to use the [ ` where ` selector ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-
rules) to filter the headings by their level.

The paper was a great success! You've met a lot of like-minded researchers at
the conference and are planning a project which you hope to publish at the
same venue next year. You'll need to write a new paper using the same style
guide though, so maybe now you want to create a time-saving template for you
and your team?

In the next section, we will learn how to create templates that can be reused
in multiple documents. This is a more advanced topic, so feel free to come
back to it later if you don't feel up to it right now.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Formatting  Previous page
](/docs/tutorial/formatting/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Making a Template  Next page  ](/docs/tutorial/making-a-template/)



# **docs/tutorial/making-a-template.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Making a Template ](/docs/tutorial/making-a-template/)

#  Making a Template

In the previous three chapters of this tutorial, you have learned how to write
a document in Typst, apply basic styles, and customize its appearance in-depth
to comply with a publisher's style guide. Because the paper you wrote in the
previous chapter was a tremendous success, you have been asked to write a
follow-up article for the same conference. This time, you want to take the
style you created in the previous chapter and turn it into a reusable
template. In this chapter you will learn how to create a template that you and
your team can use with just one show rule. Let's get started!

##  A toy template

In Typst, templates are functions in which you can wrap your whole document.
To learn how to do that, let's first review how to write your very own
functions. They can do anything you want them to, so why not go a bit crazy?

    
    
    #let amazed(term) = box[â¨ #term â¨]
    
    You are #amazed[beautiful]!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hf-0MuyTNtENvqMuqT5IlgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This function takes a single argument, ` term ` , and returns a content block
with the ` term ` surrounded by sparkles. We also put the whole thing in a box
so that the term we are amazed by cannot be separated from its sparkles by a
line break.

Many functions that come with Typst have optional named parameters. Our
functions can also have them. Let's add a parameter to our function that lets
us choose the color of the text. We need to provide a default color in case
the parameter isn't given.

    
    
    #let amazed(term, color: blue) = {
      text(color, box[â¨ #term â¨])
    }
    
    You are #amazed[beautiful]!
    I am #amazed(color: purple)[amazed]!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DeOx9bmyxPapZywkKVbTFwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Templates now work by wrapping our whole document in a custom function like `
amazed ` . But wrapping a whole document in a giant function call would be
cumbersome! Instead, we can use an "everything" show rule to achieve the same
with cleaner code. To write such a show rule, put a colon directly behind the
show keyword and then provide a function. This function is given the rest of
the document as a parameter. The function can then do anything with this
content. Since the ` amazed ` function can be called with a single content
argument, we can just pass it by name to the show rule. Let's try it:

    
    
    #show: amazed
    I choose to focus on the good
    in my life and let go of any
    negative thoughts or beliefs.
    In fact, I am amazing!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gIv_i_LbdQ0VPwrL8LD78QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Our whole document will now be passed to the ` amazed ` function, as if we
wrapped it around it. Of course, this is not especially useful with this
particular function, but when combined with set rules and named arguments, it
can be very powerful.

##  Embedding set and show rules

To apply some set and show rules to our template, we can use ` set ` and `
show ` within a content block in our function and then insert the document
into that content block.

    
    
    #let template(doc) = [
      #set text(font: "Inria Serif")
      #show "something cool": [Typst]
      #doc
    ]
    
    #show: template
    I am learning something cool today.
    It's going great so far!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/A-HDnb3ZV5ZLdSR0m_DP1QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Just like we already discovered in the previous chapter, set rules will apply
to everything within their content block. Since the everything show rule
passes our whole document to the ` template ` function, the text set rule and
string show rule in our template will apply to the whole document. Let's use
this knowledge to create a template that reproduces the body style of the
paper we wrote in the previous chapter.

    
    
    #let conf(title, doc) = {
      set page(
        paper: "us-letter",
        header: align(
          right + horizon,
          title
        ),
        columns: 2,
        ...
      )
      set par(justify: true)
      set text(
        font: "Libertinus Serif",
        size: 11pt,
      )
    
      // Heading show rules.
      ...
    
      doc
    }
    
    #show: doc => conf(
      [Paper title],
      doc,
    )
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(90)
    
    ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Zq1nZR6oWo-01oCtP5oKDAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

We copy-pasted most of that code from the previous chapter. The two
differences are this:

  1. We wrapped everything in the function ` conf ` using an everything show rule. The function applies a few set and show rules and echoes the content it has been passed at the end. 

  2. Moreover, we used a curly-braced code block instead of a content block. This way, we don't need to prefix all set rules and function calls with a ` # ` . In exchange, we cannot write markup directly in the code block anymore. 

Also note where the title comes from: We previously had it inside of a
variable. Now, we are receiving it as the first parameter of the template
function. To do so, we passed a closure (that's a function without a name that
is used right away) to the everything show rule. We did that because the `
conf ` function expects two positional arguments, the title and the body, but
the show rule will only pass the body. Therefore, we add a new function
definition that allows us to set a paper title and use the single parameter
from the show rule.

##  Templates with named arguments

Our paper in the previous chapter had a title and an author list. Let's add
these things to our template. In addition to the title, we want our template
to accept a list of authors with their affiliations and the paper's abstract.
To keep things readable, we'll add those as named arguments. In the end, we
want it to work like this:

    
    
    #show: doc => conf(
      title: [Towards Improved Modelling],
      authors: (
        (
          name: "Theresa Tungsten",
          affiliation: "Artos Institute",
          email: "tung@artos.edu",
        ),
        (
          name: "Eugene Deklan",
          affiliation: "Honduras State",
          email: "e.deklan@hstate.hn",
        ),
      ),
      abstract: lorem(80),
      doc,
    )
    
    ...
    

Let's build this new template function. First, we add a default value to the `
title ` argument. This way, we can call the template without specifying a
title. We also add the named ` authors ` and ` abstract ` parameters with
empty defaults. Next, we copy the code that generates title, abstract and
authors from the previous chapter into the template, replacing the fixed
details with the parameters.

The new ` authors ` parameter expects an [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") of [ dictionaries
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) with the keys ` name ` , `
affiliation ` and ` email ` . Because we can have an arbitrary number of
authors, we dynamically determine if we need one, two or three columns for the
author list. First, we determine the number of authors using the [ ` .len() `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-len) method on the ` authors
` array. Then, we set the number of columns as the minimum of this count and
three, so that we never create more than three columns. If there are more than
three authors, a new row will be inserted instead. For this purpose, we have
also added a ` row-gutter ` parameter to the ` grid ` function. Otherwise, the
rows would be too close together. To extract the details about the authors
from the dictionary, we use the [ field access syntax
](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields) .

We still have to provide an argument to the grid for each author: Here is
where the array's [ ` map ` method
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-map) comes in handy. It takes
a function as an argument that gets called with each item of the array. We
pass it a function that formats the details for each author and returns a new
array containing content values. We've now got one array of values that we'd
like to use as multiple arguments for the grid. We can do that by using the [
` spread ` operator ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/) . It takes an
array and applies each of its items as a separate argument to the function.

The resulting template function looks like this:

    
    
    #let conf(
      title: none,
      authors: (),
      abstract: [],
      doc,
    ) = {
      // Set and show rules from before.
      ...
    
      set align(center)
      text(17pt, title)
    
      let count = authors.len()
      let ncols = calc.min(count, 3)
      grid(
        columns: (1fr,) * ncols,
        row-gutter: 24pt,
        ..authors.map(author => [
          #author.name \
          #author.affiliation \
          #link("mailto:" + author.email)
        ]),
      )
    
      par(justify: false)[
        *Abstract* \
        #abstract
      ]
    
      set align(left)
      doc
    }
    

##  A separate file

Most of the time, a template is specified in a different file and then
imported into the document. This way, the main file you write in is kept
clutter free and your template is easily reused. Create a new text file in the
file panel by clicking the plus button and name it ` conf.typ ` . Move the `
conf ` function definition inside of that new file. Now you can access it from
your main file by adding an import before the show rule. Specify the path of
the file between the ` import  ` keyword and a colon, then name the function
that you want to import.

Another thing that you can do to make applying templates just a bit more
elegant is to use the [ ` .with `
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#definitions-with) method on functions
to pre-populate all the named arguments. This way, you can avoid spelling out
a closure and appending the content argument at the bottom of your template
list. Templates on [ Typst Universe ](https://typst.app/universe/) are
designed to work with this style of function call.

    
    
    #import "conf.typ": conf
    #show: conf.with(
      title: [
        Towards Improved Modelling
      ],
      authors: (
        (
          name: "Theresa Tungsten",
          affiliation: "Artos Institute",
          email: "tung@artos.edu",
        ),
        (
          name: "Eugene Deklan",
          affiliation: "Honduras State",
          email: "e.deklan@hstate.hn",
        ),
      ),
      abstract: lorem(80),
    )
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(90)
    
    == Motivation
    #lorem(140)
    
    == Problem Statement
    #lorem(50)
    
    = Related Work
    #lorem(200)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/BxllQV4yc0ikxppO7QP73AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

We have now converted the conference paper into a reusable template for that
conference! Why not share it in the [ Forum ](https://forum.typst.app/) or on
[ Typst's Discord server ](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) so that others can
use it too?

##  Review

Congratulations, you have completed Typst's Tutorial! In this section, you
have learned how to define your own functions and how to create and apply
templates that define reusable document styles. You've made it far and learned
a lot. You can now use Typst to write your own documents and share them with
others.

We are still a super young project and are looking for feedback. If you have
any questions, suggestions or you found a bug, please let us know in the [
Forum ](https://forum.typst.app/) , on our [ Discord server
](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) , on [ GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst/) , or via the web app's feedback form
(always available in the Help menu).

So what are you waiting for? [ Sign up ](https://typst.app) and write
something!

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Advanced Styling  Previous page
](/docs/tutorial/advanced-styling/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Reference  Next page  ](/docs/reference/)



# **docs/tutorial/formatting.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Formatting ](/docs/tutorial/formatting/)

#  Formatting

So far, you have written a report with some text, a few equations and images.
However, it still looks very plain. Your teaching assistant does not yet know
that you are using a new typesetting system, and you want your report to fit
in with the other student's submissions. In this chapter, we will see how to
format your report using Typst's styling system.

##  Set rules

As we have seen in the previous chapter, Typst has functions that _insert_
content (e.g. the [ ` image ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "`image`")
function) and others that _manipulate_ content that they received as arguments
(e.g. the [ ` align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/align/ "`align`") function).
The first impulse you might have when you want, for example, to justify the
report, could be to look for a function that does that and wrap the complete
document in it.

    
    
    #par(justify: true)[
      = Background
      In the case of glaciers, fluid
      dynamics principles can be used
      to understand how the movement
      and behaviour of the ice is
      influenced by factors such as
      temperature, pressure, and the
      presence of other fluids (such as
      water).
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Dijg8l-irnssXE7n_oJpJQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Wait, shouldn't all arguments of a function be specified within parentheses?
Why is there a second set of square brackets with content _after_ the
parentheses? The answer is that, as passing content to a function is such a
common thing to do in Typst, there is special syntax for it: Instead of
putting the content inside of the argument list, you can write it in square
brackets directly after the normal arguments, saving on punctuation.

As seen above, that works. The [ ` par ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/ "`par`")
function justifies all paragraphs within it. However, wrapping the document in
countless functions and applying styles selectively and in-situ can quickly
become cumbersome.

Fortunately, Typst has a more elegant solution. With _set rules,_ you can
apply style properties to all occurrences of some kind of content. You write a
set rule by entering the ` set  ` keyword, followed by the name of the
function whose properties you want to set, and a list of arguments in
parentheses.

    
    
    #set par(justify: true)
    
    = Background
    In the case of glaciers, fluid
    dynamics principles can be used
    to understand how the movement
    and behaviour of the ice is
    influenced by factors such as
    temperature, pressure, and the
    presence of other fluids (such as
    water).
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JHqbSYpLaF9kuNFQoo1lAgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Want to know in more technical terms what is happening here?

Set rules can be conceptualized as setting default values for some of the
parameters of a function for all future uses of that function.

##  The autocomplete panel

If you followed along and tried a few things in the app, you might have
noticed that always after you enter a ` # ` character, a panel pops up to show
you the available functions, and, within an argument list, the available
parameters. That's the autocomplete panel. It can be very useful while you are
writing your document: You can apply its suggestions by hitting the Return key
or navigate to the desired completion with the arrow keys. The panel can be
dismissed by hitting the Escape key and opened again by typing ` # ` or
hitting ` Ctrl ` \+ ` Space ` . Use the autocomplete panel to discover the
right arguments for functions. Most suggestions come with a small description
of what they do.

![Autocomplete panel](/assets/docs/2-formatting-autocomplete.png)

##  Set up the page

Back to set rules: When writing a rule, you choose the function depending on
what type of element you want to style. Here is a list of some functions that
are commonly used in set rules:

  * [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/ "`text`") to set font family, size, color, and other properties of text 
  * [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/ "`page`") to set the page size, margins, headers, enable columns, and footers 
  * [ ` par ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/ "`par`") to justify paragraphs, set line spacing, and more 
  * [ ` heading ` ](/docs/reference/model/heading/ "`heading`") to set the appearance of headings and enable numbering 
  * [ ` document ` ](/docs/reference/model/document/ "`document`") to set the metadata contained in the PDF output, such as title and author 

Not all function parameters can be set. In general, only parameters that tell
a function _how_ to do something can be set, not those that tell it _what_ to
do it with. The function reference pages indicate which parameters are
settable.

Let's add a few more styles to our document. We want larger margins and a
serif font. For the purposes of the example, we'll also set another page size.

    
    
    #set page(
      paper: "a6",
      margin: (x: 1.8cm, y: 1.5cm),
    )
    #set text(
      font: "New Computer Modern",
      size: 10pt
    )
    #set par(
      justify: true,
      leading: 0.52em,
    )
    
    = Introduction
    In this report, we will explore the
    various factors that influence fluid
    dynamics in glaciers and how they
    contribute to the formation and
    behaviour of these natural structures.
    
    ...
    
    #align(center + bottom)[
      #image("glacier.jpg", width: 70%)
    
      *Glaciers form an important
      part of the earth's climate
      system.*
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/vXvjGwfGgpk5eo7U4CVWMQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

There are a few things of note here.

First is the [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/ "`page`") set rule. It
receives two arguments: the page size and margins for the page. The page size
is a string. Typst accepts [ many standard page sizes,
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-paper) but you can also specify a
custom page size. The margins are specified as a [ dictionary.
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) Dictionaries are a collection of
key-value pairs. In this case, the keys are ` x ` and ` y ` , and the values
are the horizontal and vertical margins, respectively. We could also have
specified separate margins for each side by passing a dictionary with the keys
` left ` , ` right ` , ` top ` , and ` bottom ` .

Next is the set [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/ "`text`") set rule.
Here, we set the font size to ` 10pt  ` and font family to ` "New Computer
Modern"  ` . The Typst app comes with many fonts that you can try for your
document. When you are in the text function's argument list, you can discover
the available fonts in the autocomplete panel.

We have also set the spacing between lines (a.k.a. leading): It is specified
as a [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/ "length") value, and we used
the ` em ` unit to specify the leading relative to the size of the font: ` 1em
` is equivalent to the current font size (which defaults to ` 11pt  ` ).

Finally, we have bottom aligned our image by adding a vertical alignment to
our center alignment. Vertical and horizontal alignments can be combined with
the ` +  ` operator to yield a 2D alignment.

##  A hint of sophistication

To structure our document more clearly, we now want to number our headings. We
can do this by setting the ` numbering ` parameter of the [ ` heading `
](/docs/reference/model/heading/ "`heading`") function.

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(10)
    
    == Background
    #lorem(12)
    
    == Methods
    #lorem(15)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4WtF0u81AczurIYrwpRdcwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

We specified the string ` "1."  ` as the numbering parameter. This tells Typst
to number the headings with arabic numerals and to put a dot between the
number of each level. We can also use [ letters, roman numerals, and symbols
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) for our headings:

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.a")
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(10)
    
    == Background
    #lorem(12)
    
    == Methods
    #lorem(15)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Llv0DrZ6U-QKf1vju2wP4QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example also uses the [ ` lorem ` ](/docs/reference/text/lorem/
"`lorem`") function to generate some placeholder text. This function takes a
number as an argument and generates that many words of _Lorem Ipsum_ text.

Did you wonder why the headings and text set rules apply to all text and
headings, even if they are not produced with the respective functions?

Typst internally calls the ` heading ` function every time you write ` =
Conclusion  ` . In fact, the function call ` #  heading  [  Conclusion  ]  `
is equivalent to the heading markup above. Other markup elements work
similarly, they are only _syntax sugar_ for the corresponding function calls.

##  Show rules

You are already pretty happy with how this turned out. But one last thing
needs to be fixed: The report you are writing is intended for a larger project
and that project's name should always be accompanied by a logo, even in prose.

You consider your options. You could add an ` #  image  (  "logo.svg"  )  `
call before every instance of the logo using search and replace. That sounds
very tedious. Instead, you could maybe [ define a custom function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#defining-functions) that always yields
the logo with its image. However, there is an even easier way:

With show rules, you can redefine how Typst displays certain elements. You
specify which elements Typst should show differently and how they should look.
Show rules can be applied to instances of text, many functions, and even the
whole document.

    
    
    #show "ArtosFlow": name => box[
      #box(image(
        "logo.svg",
        height: 0.7em,
      ))
      #name
    ]
    
    This report is embedded in the
    ArtosFlow project. ArtosFlow is a
    project of the Artos Institute.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/349_Itx4-rTeNxzJmNofvgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

There is a lot of new syntax in this example: We write the ` show  ` keyword,
followed by a string of text we want to show differently and a colon. Then, we
write a function that takes the content that shall be shown as an argument.
Here, we called that argument ` name ` . We can now use the ` name ` variable
in the function's body to print the ArtosFlow name. Our show rule adds the
logo image in front of the name and puts the result into a box to prevent
linebreaks from occurring between logo and name. The image is also put inside
of a box, so that it does not appear in its own paragraph.

The calls to the first box function and the image function did not require a
leading ` # ` because they were not embedded directly in markup. When Typst
expects code instead of markup, the leading ` # ` is not needed to access
functions, keywords, and variables. This can be observed in parameter lists,
function definitions, and [ code blocks ](/docs/reference/scripting/) .

##  Review

You now know how to apply basic formatting to your Typst documents. You
learned how to set the font, justify your paragraphs, change the page
dimensions, and add numbering to your headings with set rules. You also
learned how to use a basic show rule to change how text appears throughout
your document.

You have handed in your report. Your supervisor was so happy with it that they
want to adapt it into a conference paper! In the next section, we will learn
how to format your document as a paper using more advanced show rules and
functions.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Writing in Typst  Previous page
](/docs/tutorial/writing-in-typst/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Advanced Styling  Next page  ](/docs/tutorial/advanced-styling/)



# **docs/changelog/0.11.1.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.11.1 ](/docs/changelog/0.11.1/)

#  Version 0.11.1 (May 17, 2024)

##  Security

  * Fixed a vulnerability where image files at known paths could be embedded into the PDF even if they were outside of the project directory 

##  Bibliography

  * Fixed et-al handling in subsequent citations 
  * Fixed suppression of title for citations and bibliography references with no author 
  * Fixed handling of initials in citation styles without a delimiter 
  * Fixed bug with citations in footnotes 

##  Text and Layout

  * Fixed interaction of [ ` first-line-indent ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-first-line-indent) and [ ` outline ` ](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "`outline`")
  * Fixed compression of CJK punctuation marks at line start and end 
  * Fixed handling of [ rectangles ](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/) with negative dimensions 
  * Fixed layout of [ ` path ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/ "`path`") in explicitly sized container 
  * Fixed broken [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") text in right-to-left paragraphs 
  * Fixed tab rendering in ` raw ` text with language ` typ ` or ` typc `
  * Fixed highlighting of multi-line ` raw ` text enclosed by single backticks 
  * Fixed indentation of overflowing lines in ` raw ` blocks 
  * Fixed extra space when ` raw ` text ends with a backtick 

##  Math

  * Fixed broken [ equations ](/docs/reference/math/equation/) in right-to-left paragraphs 
  * Fixed missing [ blackboard bold ](/docs/reference/math/variants/#functions-bb) letters 
  * Fixed error on empty arguments in 2D math argument list 
  * Fixed stretching via [ ` mid ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-mid) for various characters 
  * Fixed that alignment points in equations were affected by ` set  align  (  ..  )  `

##  Export

  * Fixed [ smart quotes ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/) in PDF outline 
  * Fixed [ patterns ](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) with spacing in PDF 
  * Fixed wrong PDF page labels when [ page numbering ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-numbering) was disabled after being previously enabled 

##  Scripting

  * Fixed overflow for large numbers in external data files (by converting to floats instead) 
  * Fixed [ ` str  .  trim  (  regex  ,  at  :  end  )  ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-trim) when the whole string is matched 

##  Miscellaneous

  * Fixed deformed strokes for specific shapes and thicknesses 
  * Fixed newline handling in code mode: There can now be comments within chained method calls and between an ` if ` branch and the ` else ` keyword 
  * Fixed inefficiency with incremental reparsing 
  * Fixed autocompletions for relative file imports 
  * Fixed crash in autocompletion handler 
  * Fixed a bug where the path and entrypoint printed by ` typst init ` were not properly escaped 
  * Fixed various documentation errors 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of elegaanz](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/16254623?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/elegaanz)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frozolotl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44589151?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frozolotl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of A-Walrus](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58790821?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/A-Walrus)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Myriad-Dreamin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35292584?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Myriad-Dreamin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of 3w36zj6](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/52315048?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/3w36zj6)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Enter-tainer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25521218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of EpicEricEE](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7191192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/EpicEricEE)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jocs](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9712830?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jocs)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of QuarticCat](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/70888415?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/QuarticCat)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Tom4sCruz](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/103905440?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Tom4sCruz)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of bluebear94](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2975203?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/bluebear94)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of etiennecollin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/99756528?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/etiennecollin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of gabriel-araujjo](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3980936?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/gabriel-araujjo)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of joserlopes](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/95137505?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/joserlopes)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of rikhuijzer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20724914?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/rikhuijzer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of wrzian](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/133046678?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/wrzian)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.12.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.12.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.11.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.11.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.9.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.9.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.9.0/)

#  Version 0.9.0 (October 31, 2023)

##  Bibliography management

  * New bibliography engine based on [ CSL ](https://citationstyles.org/) (Citation Style Language). Ships with about 100 commonly used citation styles and can load custom ` .csl ` files. 
  * Added new [ ` form ` ](/docs/reference/model/cite/#parameters-form) argument to the ` cite ` function to produce different forms of citations (e.g. for producing a citation suitable for inclusion in prose) 
  * The [ ` cite ` ](/docs/reference/model/cite/ "`cite`") function now takes only a single label/key instead of allowing multiple. Adjacent citations are merged and formatted according to the citation style's rules automatically. This works both with the reference syntax and explicit calls to the ` cite ` function. **(Breaking change)**
  * The ` cite ` function now takes a [ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "label") instead of a string **(Breaking change)**
  * Added [ ` full ` ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/#parameters-full) argument to bibliography function to print the full bibliography even if not all works were cited 
  * Bibliography entries can now contain Typst equations (wrapped in ` $  ..  $  ` just like in markup), this works both for ` .yml ` and ` .bib ` bibliographies 
  * The hayagriva YAML format was improved. See its [ changelog ](https://github.com/typst/hayagriva/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for more details. **(Breaking change)**
  * A few bugs with ` .bib ` file parsing were fixed 
  * Removed ` brackets ` argument of ` cite ` function in favor of ` form `

##  Visualization

  * Gradients and colors (thanks to [ @Dherse ](https://github.com/Dherse) ) 
    * Added support for [ gradients ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) on shapes and text 
    * Supports linear, radial, and conic gradients 
    * Added support for defining colors in more color spaces, including [ Oklab ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) , [ Linear RGB(A) ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-linear-rgb) , [ HSL ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsl) , and [ HSV ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsv)
    * Added [ ` saturate ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-saturate) , [ ` desaturate ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-desaturate) , and [ ` rotate ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-rotate) functions on colors 
    * Added [ ` color.map ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#predefined-color-maps) module with predefined color maps that can be used with gradients 
    * Rename ` kind ` function on colors to [ ` space ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-space)
    * Removed ` to-rgba ` , ` to-cmyk ` , and ` to-luma ` functions in favor of a new [ ` components ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) function 
  * Improved rendering of [ rectangles ](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/) with corner radius and varying stroke widths 
  * Added support for properly clipping [ boxes ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-clip) and [ blocks ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-clip) with a border radius 
  * Added ` background ` parameter to [ ` overline ` ](/docs/reference/text/overline/ "`overline`") , [ ` underline ` ](/docs/reference/text/underline/ "`underline`") , and [ ` strike ` ](/docs/reference/text/strike/ "`strike`") functions 
  * Fixed inaccurate color embedding in PDFs 
  * Fixed ICC profile handling for images embedded in PDFs 

##  Text and Layout

  * Added support for automatically adding proper [ spacing ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-cjk-latin-spacing) between CJK and Latin text (enabled by default) 
  * Added support for automatic adjustment of more CJK punctuation 
  * Added [ ` quote ` ](/docs/reference/model/quote/ "`quote`") element for inserting inline and block quotes with optional attributions 
  * Added [ ` raw.line ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#definitions-line) element for customizing the display of individual lines of raw text, e.g. to add line numbers while keeping proper syntax highlighting 
  * Added support for per-side [ inset ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-inset) customization to table function 
  * Added Hungarian and Romanian translations 
  * Added support for Czech hyphenation 
  * Added support for setting custom [ smart quotes ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/)
  * The default [ figure separator ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#definitions-caption-separator) now reacts to the currently set language and region 
  * Improved line breaking of links / URLs (especially helpful for bibliographies with many URLs) 
  * Improved handling of consecutive hyphens in justification algorithm 
  * Fixed interaction of justification and hanging indent 
  * Fixed a bug with line breaking of short lines without spaces when justification is enabled 
  * Fixed font fallback for hyphen generated by hyphenation 
  * Fixed handling of word joiner and other no-break characters during hyphenation 
  * Fixed crash when hyphenating after an empty line 
  * Fixed line breaking of composite emoji like ð³ï¸âð 
  * Fixed missing text in some SVGs 
  * Fixed font fallback in SVGs 
  * Fixed behavior of [ ` to ` ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/#parameters-to) argument on ` pagebreak ` function 
  * Fixed ` set  align  (  ..  )  ` for equations 
  * Fixed spacing around [ placed ](/docs/reference/layout/place/) elements 
  * Fixed coalescing of [ ` above ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-above) and [ ` below ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-below) spacing if given in em units and the font sizes differ 
  * Fixed handling of ` extent ` parameter of [ ` underline ` ](/docs/reference/text/underline/ "`underline`") , [ ` overline ` ](/docs/reference/text/overline/ "`overline`") , and [ ` strike ` ](/docs/reference/text/strike/ "`strike`") functions 
  * Fixed crash for [ floating placed elements ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-float) with no specified vertical alignment 
  * Partially fixed a bug with citations in footnotes 

##  Math

  * Added ` gap ` argument for [ ` vec ` ](/docs/reference/math/vec/#parameters-gap) , [ ` mat ` ](/docs/reference/math/mat/#parameters-gap) , and [ ` cases ` ](/docs/reference/math/cases/#parameters-gap) function 
  * Added ` size ` argument for [ ` abs ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-abs) , [ ` norm ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-norm) , [ ` floor ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-floor) , [ ` ceil ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-ceil) , and [ ` round ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-round) functions 
  * Added [ ` reverse ` ](/docs/reference/math/cases/#parameters-reverse) parameter to cases function 
  * Added support for multinomial coefficients to [ ` binom ` ](/docs/reference/math/binom/) function 
  * Removed ` rotation ` argument on [ ` cancel ` ](/docs/reference/math/cancel/) function in favor of a new and more flexible ` angle ` argument **(Breaking change)**
  * Added ` wide ` constant, which inserts twice the spacing of ` quad `
  * Added ` csch ` and ` sech ` [ operators ](/docs/reference/math/op/)
  * ` â¼ ` , ` â ` , ` â ` , and ` â· ` can now be used as [ accents ](/docs/reference/math/accent/)
  * Added ` integral.dash ` , ` integral.dash.double ` , and ` integral.slash ` [ symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)
  * Added support for specifying negative indices for [ augmentation ](/docs/reference/math/mat/#parameters-augment) lines to position the line from the back 
  * Fixed default color of matrix [ augmentation ](/docs/reference/math/mat/#parameters-augment) lines 
  * Fixed attachment of primes to inline expressions 
  * Math content now respects the text [ baseline ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-baseline) setting 

##  Performance

  * Fixed a bug related to show rules in templates which would effectively disable incremental compilation in affected documents 
  * Micro-optimized code in several hot paths, which brings substantial performance gains, in particular in incremental compilations 
  * Improved incremental parsing, which affects the whole incremental compilation pipeline 
  * Added support for incremental parsing in the CLI 
  * Added support for incremental SVG encoding during PDF export, which greatly improves export performance for documents with many SVG 

##  Tooling and Diagnostics

  * Improved autocompletion for variables that are in-scope 
  * Added autocompletion for package imports 
  * Added autocompletion for [ labels ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)
  * Added tooltip that shows which variables a function captures (when hovering over the equals sign or arrow of the function) 
  * Diagnostics are now deduplicated 
  * Improved diagnostics when trying to apply unary ` + ` or ` - ` to types that only support binary ` + ` and ` - `
  * Error messages now state which label or citation key isn't present in the document or its bibliography 
  * Fixed a bug where function argument parsing errors were shadowed by function execution errors (e.g. when trying to call [ ` array.sorted ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-sorted) and passing the key function as a positional argument instead of a named one). 

##  Export

  * Added support for configuring the document's creation [ ` date ` ](/docs/reference/model/document/#parameters-date) . If the ` date ` is set to ` auto  ` (the default), the PDF's creation date will be set to the current date and time. 
  * Added support for configuring document [ ` keywords ` ](/docs/reference/model/document/#parameters-keywords)
  * Generated PDFs now contain PDF document IDs 
  * The PDF creator tool metadata now includes the Typst version 

##  Web app

  * Added version picker to pin a project to an older compiler version (with support for Typst 0.6.0+) 
  * Fixed desyncs between editor and compiler and improved overall stability 
  * The app now continues to highlight the document when typing while the document is being compiled 

##  Command line interface

  * Added support for discovering fonts through fontconfig 
  * Now clears the screen instead of resetting the terminal 
  * Now automatically picks correct file extension for selected output format 
  * Now only regenerates images for changed pages when using ` typst watch ` with PNG or SVG export 

##  Miscellaneous Improvements

  * Added [ ` version ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/version/ "`version`") type and ` sys.version ` constant specifying the current compiler version. Can be used to gracefully support multiple versions. 
  * The U+2212 MINUS SIGN is now used when displaying a numeric value, in the [ ` repr ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/ "`repr`") of any numeric value and to replace a normal hyphen in text mode when before a digit. This improves, in particular, how negative integer values are displayed in math mode. 
  * Added support for specifying a default value instead of failing for ` remove ` function in [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-remove) and [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/#definitions-remove)
  * Simplified page setup guide examples 
  * Switched the documentation from using the word "hashtag" to the word "hash" where appropriate 
  * Added support for [ ` array.zip ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-zip) without any further arguments 
  * Fixed crash when a plugin tried to read out of bounds memory 
  * Fixed crashes when handling infinite [ lengths ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)
  * Fixed introspection (mostly bibliography) bugs due to weak page break close to the end of the document 

##  Development

  * Extracted ` typst::ide ` into separate ` typst_ide ` crate 
  * Removed a few remaining ` 'static ` bounds on ` &dyn World `
  * Removed unnecessary dependency, which reduces the binary size 
  * Fixed compilation of ` typst ` by itself (without ` typst-library ` ) 
  * Fixed warnings with Nix flake when using ` lib.getExe `

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of EpicEricEE](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7191192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/EpicEricEE)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tingerrr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/137803093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tingerrr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LuxxxLucy](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/19356905?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LuxxxLucy)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of bluebear94](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2975203?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/bluebear94)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jollywatt](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/24970860?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jollywatt)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SekoiaTree](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/51149447?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SekoiaTree)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of DVDTSB](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/66365801?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/DVDTSB)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of HydroH](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14823453?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/HydroH)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of KillTheMule](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4117685?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/KillTheMule)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frozolotl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44589151?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frozolotl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of peng1999](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12483662?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/peng1999)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of 0scvr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/71343264?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/0scvr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of 7sDream](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7822577?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/7sDream)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of 8LWXpg](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/105704427?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/8LWXpg)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Enter-tainer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25521218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of FlyinPancake](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/36113055?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/FlyinPancake)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Myriad-Dreamin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35292584?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Myriad-Dreamin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of T0mstone](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/39707032?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/T0mstone)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of TheJosefOlsson](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/143743179?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/TheJosefOlsson)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of WannesMalfait](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46323945?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/WannesMalfait)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of WeetHet](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43210583?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/WeetHet)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Weissnix4711](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/42943391?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Weissnix4711)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Zheoni](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38019254?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Zheoni)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of antonWetzel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/59712243?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/antonWetzel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of arnaudgolfouse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53786772?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/arnaudgolfouse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of drupol](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/252042?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/drupol)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dxniel-19](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33750461?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dxniel-19)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of extua](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/66693681?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/extua)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of fritzrehde](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/80471265?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/fritzrehde)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of johannes-wolf](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/519002?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/johannes-wolf)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of qrnch-jan](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/60492138?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/qrnch-jan)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of toddlerer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/74579078?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/toddlerer)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.10.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.10.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.8.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.8.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.10.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.10.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.10.0/)

#  Version 0.10.0 (December 4, 2023)

##  Bibliography management

  * Added support for citation collapsing (e.g. ` [1]-[3] ` instead of ` [1], [2], [3] ` ) if requested by a CSL style 
  * Fixed bug where an additional space would appear after a group of citations 
  * Fixed link show rules for links in the bibliography 
  * Fixed show-set rules on citations 
  * Fixed bibliography-related crashes that happened on some systems 
  * Corrected name of the GB/T 7714 family of styles from 7114 to 7714 
  * Fixed missing title in some bibliography styles 
  * Fixed printing of volumes in some styles 
  * Fixed delimiter order for contributors in some styles (e.g. APA) 
  * Fixed behavior of alphanumeric style 
  * Fixed multiple bugs with GB/T 7714 style 
  * Fixed escaping in Hayagriva values 
  * Fixed crashes with empty dates in Hayagriva files 
  * Fixed bug with spacing around math blocks 
  * Fixed title case formatting after verbatim text and apostrophes 
  * Page ranges in ` .bib ` files can now be arbitrary strings 
  * Multi-line values in ` .bib ` files are now parsed correctly 
  * Entry keys in ` .bib ` files now allow more characters 
  * Fixed error message for empty dates in ` .bib ` files 
  * Added support for years of lengths other than 4 without leading zeros in ` .bib ` files 
  * More LaTeX commands (e.g. for quotes) are now respected in ` .bib ` files 

##  Visualization

  * Added support for [ patterns ](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) as fills and strokes 
  * The ` alpha ` parameter of the [ ` components ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) function on colors is now a named parameter **(Breaking change)**
  * Added support for the [ Oklch ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklch) color space 
  * Improved conversions between colors in different color spaces 
  * Removed restrictions on [ Oklab ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) chroma component 
  * Fixed [ clipping ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-clip) on blocks and boxes without a stroke 
  * Fixed bug with [ gradients ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) on math 
  * Fixed bug with gradient rotation on text 
  * Fixed bug with gradient colors in PDF 
  * Fixed relative base of Oklab chroma ratios 
  * Fixed Oklab color negation 

##  Text and Layout

  * CJK text can now be emphasized with the ` * ` and ` _ ` syntax even when there are no spaces 
  * Added basic i18n for Greek and Estonian 
  * Improved default [ figure caption separator ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#definitions-caption-separator) for Chinese, French, and Russian 
  * Changed default [ figure supplement ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-supplement) for Russian to short form 
  * Fixed [ CJK-Latin-spacing ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-cjk-latin-spacing) before line breaks and in [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`") calls 
  * Fixed line breaking at the end of links 

##  Math

  * Added [ ` mid ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-mid) function for scaling a delimiter up to the height of the surrounding [ ` lr ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-lr) group 
  * The [ ` op ` ](/docs/reference/math/op/) function can now take any content, not just strings 
  * Improved documentation for [ math alignment ](/docs/reference/math/#alignment)
  * Fixed swallowing of trailing comma when a symbol is used in a function-like way (e.g. ` pi(a,b,) ` ) 

##  Scripting

  * Any non-identifier dictionary key is now interpreted as an expression: For instance, ` (  (  key  )  :  value  )  ` will create a dictionary with a dynamic key 
  * The [ ` stroke ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "`stroke`") type now has a constructor that converts a value to a stroke or creates one from its parts 
  * Added constructor for [ ` arguments ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/ "`arguments`") type 
  * Added [ ` calc.div-euclid ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-div-euclid) and [ ` calc.rem-euclid ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-rem-euclid) functions 
  * Fixed equality of [ ` arguments ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/ "`arguments`")
  * Fixed [ ` repr ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/ "`repr`") of [ ` cmyk ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-cmyk) colors 
  * Fixed crashes with provided elements like figure captions, outline entries, and footnote entries 

##  Tooling and Diagnostics

  * Show rules that match on their own output now produce an appropriate error message instead of a crash (this is a first step, in the future they will just work) 
  * Too highly or infinitely nested layouts now produce error messages instead of crashes 
  * Added hints for invalid identifiers 
  * Added hint when trying to use a manually constructed footnote or outline entry 
  * Added missing details to autocompletions for types 
  * Improved error message when passing a named argument where a positional one is expected 
  * Jump from click now works on raw blocks 

##  Export

  * PDF compilation output is now again fully byte-by-byte reproducible if the document's [ ` date ` ](/docs/reference/model/document/#parameters-date) is set manually 
  * Fixed color export in SVG 
  * Fixed PDF metadata encoding of multiple [ authors ](/docs/reference/model/document/#parameters-author)

##  Command line interface

  * Fixed a major bug where ` typst watch ` would confuse files and fail to pick up updates 
  * Fetching of the release metadata in ` typst update ` now respects proxies 
  * Fixed bug with ` --open ` flag on Windows when the path contains a space 
  * The ` TYPST_FONT_PATHS ` environment variable can now contain multiple paths (separated by ` ; ` on Windows and ` : ` elsewhere) 
  * Updated embedded New Computer Modern fonts to version 4.7 
  * The watching process doesn't stop anymore when the main file contains invalid UTF-8 

##  Miscellaneous Improvements

  * Parallelized image encoding in PDF export 
  * Improved the internal representation of content for improved performance 
  * Optimized introspection (query, counter, etc.) performance 
  * The [ document title ](/docs/reference/model/document/#parameters-title) can now be arbitrary content instead of just a string 
  * The [ ` number-align ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#parameters-number-align) parameter on numbered lists now also accepts vertical alignments 
  * Fixed selectors on [ quote ](/docs/reference/model/quote/ "quote") elements 
  * Fixed parsing of ` #  return  ` expression in markup 
  * Fixed bug where inline equations were displayed in equation outlines 
  * Fixed potential CRLF issue in [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") blocks 
  * Fixed a bug where Chinese numbering couldn't exceed the number 255 

##  Development

  * Merged ` typst ` and ` typst-library ` and extracted ` typst-pdf ` , ` typst-svg ` , and ` typst-render ` into separate crates 
  * The Nix flake now includes the git revision when running ` typst --version `

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frozolotl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44589151?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frozolotl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Andrew15-5](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37143421?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Andrew15-5)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of danieleades](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33452915?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/danieleades)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tingerrr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/137803093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tingerrr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jollywatt](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/24970860?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jollywatt)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of cmoog](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7585078?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/cmoog)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of peng1999](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12483662?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/peng1999)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Enter-tainer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25521218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of JakobSachs](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/28728963?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/JakobSachs)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of KronosTheLate](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/61620837?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/KronosTheLate)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MyrtleTurtle22](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/82775864?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MyrtleTurtle22)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of T0mstone](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/39707032?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/T0mstone)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of TheJosefOlsson](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/143743179?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/TheJosefOlsson)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of antonWetzel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/59712243?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/antonWetzel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of denkspuren](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4160411?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/denkspuren)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kokkonisd](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18401822?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kokkonisd)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lihe07](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53819558?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lihe07)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mattfbacon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58113890?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mattfbacon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of rezzubs](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57254926?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/rezzubs)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of samueltardieu](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44656?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/samueltardieu)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of xalbd](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/119540449?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/xalbd)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.11.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.11.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.9.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.9.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.5.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.5.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.5.0/)

#  Version 0.5.0 (June 9, 2023)

##  Text and Layout

  * Added [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") syntax highlighting for many more languages 
  * Added support for Korean [ numbering ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/ "numbering")
  * Added basic i18n for a few more languages (NL, SV, DA) 
  * Improved line breaking for East Asian languages 
  * Expanded functionality of outline [ ` indent ` ](/docs/reference/model/outline/#parameters-indent) property 
  * Fixed footnotes in columns 
  * Fixed page breaking bugs with [ footnotes ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/)
  * Fixed bug with handling of footnotes in lists, tables, and figures 
  * Fixed a bug with CJK punctuation adjustment 
  * Fixed a crash with rounded rectangles 
  * Fixed alignment of [ ` line ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/line/ "`line`") elements 

##  Math

  * **Breaking change:** The syntax rules for mathematical [ attachments ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-attach) were improved: ` $  f  ^  abs  (  3  )  $  ` now parses as ` $  f  ^  (  abs  (  3  )  )  $  ` instead of ` $  (f  ^  abs  )(3)  $  ` . To disambiguate, add a space: ` $  f  ^  zeta  (3)  $  ` . 
  * Added [ forced size ](/docs/reference/math/sizes/) commands for math (e.g., [ ` display ` ](/docs/reference/math/sizes/#functions-display) ) 
  * Added [ ` supplement ` ](/docs/reference/math/equation/#parameters-supplement) parameter to [ ` equation ` ](/docs/reference/math/equation/) , used by [ references ](/docs/reference/model/ref/)
  * New [ symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/) : ` bullet ` , ` xor ` , ` slash.big ` , ` sigma.alt ` , ` tack.r.not ` , ` tack.r.short ` , ` tack.r.double.not `
  * Fixed a bug with symbols in matrices 
  * Fixed a crash in the [ ` attach ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-attach) function 

##  Scripting

  * Added new [ ` datetime ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/ "`datetime`") type and [ ` datetime.today ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/#definitions-today) to retrieve the current date 
  * Added [ ` str.from-unicode ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-from-unicode) and [ ` str.to-unicode ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-to-unicode) functions 
  * Added [ ` fields ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-fields) method on content 
  * Added ` base ` parameter to [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/ "`str`") function 
  * Added [ ` calc.exp ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-exp) and [ ` calc.ln ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-ln)
  * Improved accuracy of [ ` calc.pow ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-pow) and [ ` calc.log ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-log) for specific bases 
  * Fixed [ removal ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/#definitions-remove) order for dictionary 
  * Fixed ` .at(default: ..) ` for [ strings ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-at) and [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-at)
  * Fixed field access on styled elements 
  * Removed deprecated ` calc.mod ` function 

##  Command line interface

  * Added PNG export via ` typst compile source.typ output-{n}.png ` . The output path must contain ` {n} ` if the document has multiple pages. 
  * Added ` --diagnostic-format=short ` for Unix-style short diagnostics 
  * Doesn't emit color codes anymore if stderr isn't a TTY 
  * Now sets the correct exit when invoked with a nonexistent file 
  * Now ignores UTF-8 BOM in Typst files 

##  Miscellaneous Improvements

  * Improved errors for mismatched delimiters 
  * Improved error message for failed length comparisons 
  * Fixed a bug with images not showing up in Apple Preview 
  * Fixed multiple bugs with the PDF outline 
  * Fixed citations and other searchable elements in [ ` hide ` ](/docs/reference/layout/hide/ "`hide`")
  * Fixed bugs with [ reference supplements ](/docs/reference/model/ref/#parameters-supplement)
  * Fixed Nix flake 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of EpicEricEE](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7191192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/EpicEricEE)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SUPERCILEX](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9490724?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SUPERCILEX)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of figsoda](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40620903?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/figsoda)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lynn](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/16232127?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lynn)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of peng1999](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12483662?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/peng1999)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sandalbanditten](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/45170745?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sandalbanditten)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of BasixKOR](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7413880?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/BasixKOR)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of JettChenT](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/45888395?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/JettChenT)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of StrangeGirlMurph](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/62220780?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/StrangeGirlMurph)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of alixmacdonald10](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/52908801?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/alixmacdonald10)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of coughmedicine](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/72562074?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/coughmedicine)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of epbuennig](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/103939966?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/epbuennig)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of erikwastaken](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46598911?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/erikwastaken)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of glocq](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/16959183?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/glocq)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of howjmay](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13924801?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/howjmay)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jassler](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/24298790?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jassler)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lino-levan](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11367844?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lino-levan)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lucifer1004](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13583761?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lucifer1004)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of matthiasGmayer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/28257008?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/matthiasGmayer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of naim94a](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/227396?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/naim94a)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of ollema](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/31876997?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/ollema)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sbatial](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46973479?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sbatial)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sitandr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/60141933?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sitandr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of xiongmao86](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1770218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/xiongmao86)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.6.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.6.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.4.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.4.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.4.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.4.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.4.0/)

#  Version 0.4.0 (May 20, 2023)

##  Footnotes

  * Implemented support for footnotes 
  * The [ ` footnote ` ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/ "`footnote`") function inserts a footnote 
  * The [ ` footnote.entry ` ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/#definitions-entry) function can be used to customize the footnote listing 
  * The ` "chicago-notes"  ` [ citation style ](/docs/reference/model/cite/#parameters-style) is now available 

##  Documentation

  * Added a [ Guide for LaTeX users ](/docs/guides/guide-for-latex-users/)
  * Now shows default values for optional arguments 
  * Added richer outlines in "On this Page" 
  * Added initial support for search keywords: "Table of Contents" will now find the [ outline ](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "outline") function. Suggestions for more keywords are welcome! 
  * Fixed issue with search result ranking 
  * Fixed many more small issues 

##  Math

  * **Breaking change** : Alignment points ( ` & ` ) in equations now alternate between left and right alignment 
  * Added support for writing roots with Unicode: For example, ` $  root  (  x+y  )  $  ` can now also be written as ` $  â  (  x+y  )  $  `
  * Fixed uneven vertical [ ` attachment ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-attach) alignment 
  * Fixed spacing on decorated elements (e.g., spacing around a [ canceled ](/docs/reference/math/cancel/) operator) 
  * Fixed styling for stretchable symbols 
  * Added ` tack.r.double ` , ` tack.l.double ` , ` dotless.i ` and ` dotless.j ` [ symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)
  * Fixed show rules on symbols (e.g. ` show  sym  .  tack  :  set  text  (  blue  )  ` ) 
  * Fixed missing rename from ` ast.op ` to ` ast ` that should have been in the previous release 

##  Scripting

  * Added function scopes: A function can now hold related definitions in its own scope, similar to a module. The new [ ` assert.eq ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/#definitions-eq) function, for instance, is part of the [ ` assert ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/ "`assert`") function's scope. Note that function scopes are currently only available for built-in functions. 
  * Added [ ` assert.eq ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/#definitions-eq) and [ ` assert.ne ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/#definitions-ne) functions for simpler equality and inequality assertions with more helpful error messages 
  * Exposed [ list ](/docs/reference/model/list/#definitions-item) , [ enum ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#definitions-item) , and [ term list ](/docs/reference/model/terms/#definitions-item) items in their respective functions' scope 
  * The ` at ` methods on [ strings ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-at) , [ arrays ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-at) , [ dictionaries ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/#definitions-at) , and [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-at) now support specifying a default value 
  * Added support for passing a function to [ ` replace ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-replace) that is called with each match. 
  * Fixed [ replacement ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-replace) strings: They are now inserted completely verbatim instead of supporting the previous (unintended) magic dollar syntax for capture groups 
  * Fixed bug with trailing placeholders in destructuring patterns 
  * Fixed bug with underscore in parameter destructuring 
  * Fixed crash with nested patterns and when hovering over an invalid pattern 
  * Better error messages when casting to an [ integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) fails 

##  Text and Layout

  * Implemented sophisticated CJK punctuation adjustment 
  * Disabled [ overhang ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-overhang) for CJK punctuation 
  * Added basic translations for Traditional Chinese 
  * Fixed [ alignment ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-align) of text inside raw blocks (centering a raw block, e.g. through a figure, will now keep the text itself left-aligned) 
  * Added support for passing a array instead of a function to configure table cell [ alignment ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-align) and [ fill ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-fill) per column 
  * Fixed automatic figure [ ` kind ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-kind) detection 
  * Made alignment of [ enum numbers ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#parameters-number-align) configurable, defaulting to ` end `
  * Figures can now be made breakable with a show-set rule for blocks in figure 
  * Initial fix for smart quotes in RTL languages 

##  Export

  * Fixed ligatures in PDF export: They are now copyable and searchable 
  * Exported PDFs now embed ICC profiles for images that have them 
  * Fixed export of strokes with zero thickness 

##  Web app

  * Projects can now contain folders 
  * Added upload by drag-and-drop into the file panel 
  * Files from the file panel can now be dragged into the editor to insert them into a Typst file 
  * You can now copy-paste images and other files from your computer directly into the editor 
  * Added a button to resend confirmation email 
  * Added an option to invert preview colors in dark mode 
  * Added tips to the loading screen and the Help menu. Feel free to propose more! 
  * Added syntax highlighting for YAML files 
  * Allowed middle mouse button click on many buttons to navigate into a new tab 
  * Allowed more project names 
  * Fixed overridden Vim mode keybindings 
  * Fixed many bugs regarding file upload and more 

##  Miscellaneous Improvements

  * Improved performance of counters, state, and queries 
  * Improved incremental parsing for more efficient recompilations 
  * Added support for ` .yaml ` extension in addition to ` .yml ` for bibliographies 
  * The CLI now emits escape codes only if the output is a TTY 
  * For users of the ` typst ` crate: The ` Document ` is now ` Sync ` again and the ` World ` doesn't have to be ` 'static ` anymore 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Marmare314](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/49279081?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Marmare314)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SUPERCILEX](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9490724?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SUPERCILEX)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of peng1999](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12483662?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/peng1999)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sitandr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/60141933?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sitandr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of stevenskevin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/48657161?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/stevenskevin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of AlistairKeiller](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43255248?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/AlistairKeiller)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of HarmoGlace](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23212967?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/HarmoGlace)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MultisampledNight](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/80128916?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MultisampledNight)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of albertothedev](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46131317?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/albertothedev)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dvdvgt](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40773635?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dvdvgt)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of emme1444](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23585909?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/emme1444)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of goggle](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1856425?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/goggle)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jannisko](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40455076?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jannisko)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jassler](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/24298790?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jassler)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of johannes-wolf](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/519002?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/johannes-wolf)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of liferooter](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/54807745?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/liferooter)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of maciemesser](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/34891249?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/maciemesser)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mattfbacon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58113890?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mattfbacon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of maxwell-thum](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/119913396?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/maxwell-thum)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of maybechris](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/103339277?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/maybechris)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of michidk](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3979930?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/michidk)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of naim94a](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/227396?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/naim94a)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of owiecc](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6896639?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/owiecc)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of pan93412](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/28441561?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/pan93412)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of szdytom](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33175397?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/szdytom)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.5.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.5.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.3.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.3.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.11.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.11.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.11.0/)

#  Version 0.11.0 (March 15, 2024)

##  Tables

  * Tables are now _much_ more flexible, read the new [ table guide ](/docs/guides/table-guide/) to get started 
  * Added [ ` table.cell ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell "`table.cell`") element for per-cell configuration 
  * Cells can now span multiple [ columns ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell-colspan) or [ rows ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell-rowspan)
  * The [ stroke ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell-stroke) of individual cells can now be customized 
  * The [ ` align ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-align) and [ ` inset ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-inset) arguments of the table function now also take ` (  x  ,  y  )  => .. ` functions 
  * Added [ ` table.hline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline "`table.hline`") and [ ` table.vline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-vline "`table.vline`") for convenient line customization 
  * Added [ ` table.header ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-header "`table.header`") element for table headers that repeat on every page 
  * Added [ ` table.footer ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-footer "`table.footer`") element for table footers that repeat on every page 
  * All the new table functionality is also available for [ grids ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/)
  * Fixed gutter-related bugs 

_Thanks to[ @PgBiel ](https://github.com/PgBiel) for his work on tables! _

##  Templates

  * You can now use template packages to get started with new projects. Click _Start from template_ on the web app's dashboard and choose your preferred template or run the ` typst init <template> ` command in the CLI. You can [ browse the available templates here ](https://typst.app/universe/search/?kind=templates) . 
  * Switching templates after the fact has become easier. You can just import a styling function from a different template package. 
  * Package authors can now submit their own templates to the [ package repository ](https://github.com/typst/packages) . Share a template for a paper, your institution, or an original work to help the community get a head start on their projects. 
  * Templates and packages are now organized by category and discipline. Filter packages by either taxonomy in the _Start from template_ wizard. If you are a package author, take a look at the new documentation for [ categories ](https://github.com/typst/packages/blob/main/CATEGORIES.md) and [ disciplines ](https://github.com/typst/packages/blob/main/DISCIPLINES.md) . 

##  Context

  * Added _context expressions:_ Read the chapter on [ context ](/docs/reference/context/ "context") to get started 
  * With context, you can access settable properties, e.g. ` context  text  .  lang ` to access the language set via ` set  text  (  lang  :  ".."  )  `
  * The following existing functions have been made contextual: [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") , [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`") , [ ` measure ` ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/ "`measure`") , [ ` counter.display ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-display "`counter.display`") , [ ` counter.at ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-at "`counter.at`") , [ ` counter.final ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-final "`counter.final`") , [ ` state.at ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-at "`state.at`") , and [ ` state.final ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-final "`state.final`")
  * Added contextual methods [ ` counter.get ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-get "`counter.get`") and [ ` state.get ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-get "`state.get`") to retrieve the value of a counter or state in the current context 
  * Added contextual function [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") to retrieve the [ location ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/ "location") of the current context 
  * The [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`") function now returns the location of a selector's unique match. Its old behavior has been replaced by context expressions and only remains temporarily available for compatibility. 
  * The [ ` counter.at ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-at "`counter.at`") and [ ` state.at ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-at "`state.at`") methods are now more flexible: They directly accept any kind of [ locatable ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#locatable) selector with a unique match (e.g. a label) instead of just locations 
  * When context is available, [ ` counter.display ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-display "`counter.display`") now directly returns the result of applying the numbering instead of yielding opaque content. It should not be used anymore without context. (Deprecation planned) 
  * The [ ` state.display ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-display "`state.display`") function should not be used anymore, use [ ` state.get ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-get "`state.get`") instead (Deprecation planned) 
  * The ` location ` argument of [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") , [ ` counter.final ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-final "`counter.final`") , and [ ` state.final ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-final "`state.final`") should not be used anymore (Deprecation planned) 
  * The [ ` styles ` ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/#parameters-styles) argument of the ` measure ` function should not be used anymore (Deprecation planned) 
  * The [ ` style ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/style/ "`style`") function should not be used anymore, use context instead (Deprecation planned) 
  * The correct context is now also provided in various other places where it is available, e.g. in show rules, layout callbacks, and numbering functions in the outline 

##  Styling

  * Fixed priority of multiple [ show-set rules ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) : They now apply in the same order as normal set rules would 
  * Show-set rules on the same element (e.g. ` show  heading  .  where  (  level  :  1  )  :  set  heading  (  numbering  :  "1."  )  ` ) now work properly 
  * Setting properties on an element within a transformational show rule (e.g. ` show  heading  :  it  => {  set  heading  (  ..  )  ;  it  }  ` ) is **not** supported anymore (previously it also only worked sometimes); use show-set rules instead **(Breaking change)**
  * Text show rules that match their own output now work properly (e.g. ` show  "cmd"  :  `cmd`  ` ) 
  * The elements passed to show rules and returned by queries now contain all fields of their respective element functions rather than just specific ones 
  * All settable properties can now be used in [ where ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#definitions-where) selectors 
  * [ And ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/#definitions-and) and [ or ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/#definitions-or) selectors can now be used with show rules 
  * Errors within show rules and context expressions are now ignored in all but the last introspection iteration, in line with the behavior of the old [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`")
  * Fixed a bug where document set rules were allowed after content 

##  Layout

  * Added ` reflow ` argument to [ ` rotate ` ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/) and [ ` scale ` ](/docs/reference/layout/scale/) which lets them affect the layout 
  * Fixed a bug where [ floating placement ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-float) or [ floating figures ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-placement) could end up out of order 
  * Fixed overlap of text and figure for full-page floating figures 
  * Fixed various cases where the [ ` hide ` ](/docs/reference/layout/hide/ "`hide`") function didn't hide its contents properly 
  * Fixed usage of [ ` h ` ](/docs/reference/layout/h/ "`h`") and [ ` v ` ](/docs/reference/layout/v/ "`v`") in [ stacks ](/docs/reference/layout/stack/)
  * Invisible content like a counter update will no longer force a visible block for just itself 
  * Fixed a bug with horizontal spacing followed by invisible content (like a counter update) directly at the start of a paragraph 

##  Text

  * Added [ ` stroke ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-stroke) property for text 
  * Added basic i18n for Serbian and Catalan 
  * Added support for contemporary Japanese [ numbering ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/ "numbering") method 
  * Added patches for various wrong metadata in specific fonts 
  * The [ text direction ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-dir) can now be overridden within a paragraph 
  * Fixed Danish [ smart quotes ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/)
  * Fixed font fallback next to a line break 
  * Fixed width adjustment of JIS-style Japanese punctuation 
  * Fixed Finnish translation of "Listing" 
  * Fixed Z-ordering of multiple text decorations (underlines, etc.) 
  * Fixed a bug due to which text [ features ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-features) could not be overridden in consecutive set rules 

##  Model

  * Added [ ` depth ` ](/docs/reference/model/heading/#parameters-depth) and [ ` offset ` ](/docs/reference/model/heading/#parameters-offset) arguments to heading to increase or decrease the heading level for a bunch of content; the heading syntax now sets ` depth ` rather than ` level ` **(Breaking change)**
  * List [ markers ](/docs/reference/model/list/#parameters-marker) now cycle by default 
  * The [ ` quote ` ](/docs/reference/model/quote/ "`quote`") function now more robustly selects the correct quotes based on language and nesting 
  * Fixed indent bugs related to the default show rule of [ terms ](/docs/reference/model/terms/ "terms")

##  Math

  * Inline equations now automatically linebreak at appropriate places 
  * Added [ ` number-align ` ](/docs/reference/math/equation/#parameters-number-align) argument to equations 
  * Added support for adjusting the [ ` size ` ](/docs/reference/math/accent/#parameters-size) of accents relative to their base 
  * Improved positioning of accents 
  * [ Primes ](/docs/reference/math/primes/) are now always attached as [ scripts ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-scripts) by default 
  * Exposed [ ` math.primes ` ](/docs/reference/math/primes/ "`math.primes`") element which backs the ` $  f  '  $  ` syntax in math 
  * Math mode is not affected by [ ` strong ` ](/docs/reference/model/strong/ "`strong`") and [ ` emph ` ](/docs/reference/model/emph/ "`emph`") anymore 
  * Fixed [ ` attach ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-attach) under [ fractions ](/docs/reference/math/frac/)
  * Fixed that [ ` math.class ` ](/docs/reference/math/class/ "`math.class`") did not affect smart limit placement 
  * Fixed weak spacing in [ ` lr ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-lr) groups 
  * Fixed layout of large operators for Cambria Math font 
  * Fixed math styling of Hebrew symbol codepoints 

##  Symbols

  * Added ` gradient ` as an alias for ` nabla `
  * Added ` partial ` as an alias for ` diff ` , ` diff ` will be deprecated in the future 
  * Added ` colon.double ` , ` gt.approx ` , ` gt.napprox ` , ` lt.approx ` , and ` lt.napprox `
  * Added ` arrow.r.tilde ` and ` arrow.l.tilde `
  * Added ` tilde.dot `
  * Added ` forces ` and ` forces.not `
  * Added ` space.nobreak.narrow `
  * Added ` lrm ` (Left-to-Right Mark) and ` rlm ` (Right-to-Left Mark) 
  * Fixed ` star.stroked ` symbol (which previously had the wrong codepoint) 

##  Scripting

  * Arrays can now be compared lexicographically 
  * Added contextual method [ ` to-absolute ` ](/docs/reference/layout/length/#definitions-to-absolute) to lengths 
  * Added [ ` calc.root ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-root)
  * Added [ ` int.signum ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-signum "`int.signum`") and [ ` float.signum ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/#definitions-signum "`float.signum`") methods 
  * Added [ ` float.is-nan ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/#definitions-is-nan "`float.is-nan`") and [ ` float.is-infinite ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/#definitions-is-infinite "`float.is-infinite`") methods 
  * Added [ ` int.bit-not ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-bit-not "`int.bit-not`") , [ ` int.bit-and ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-bit-and "`int.bit-and`") , [ ` int.bit-or ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-bit-or "`int.bit-or`") , [ ` int.bit-xor ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-bit-xor "`int.bit-xor`") , [ ` int.bit-lshift ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-bit-lshift "`int.bit-lshift`") , and [ ` int.bit-rshift ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-bit-rshift "`int.bit-rshift`") methods 
  * Added [ ` array.chunks ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-chunks "`array.chunks`") method 
  * A module can now be converted to a dictionary with the [ dictionary constructor ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/#constructor) to access its contents dynamically 
  * Added [ ` row-type ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/csv/#parameters-row-type) argument to ` csv ` function to configure how rows will be represented 
  * [ XML parsing ](/docs/reference/data-loading/xml/) now allows DTDs (document type definitions) 
  * Improved formatting of negative numbers with [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) and [ ` repr ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/)
  * For loops can now iterate over [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "bytes")
  * Fixed a bug with pattern matching in for loops 
  * Fixed a bug with labels not being part of [ ` .  fields  (  )  ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-fields) dictionaries 
  * Fixed a bug where unnamed argument sinks wouldn't capture excess arguments 
  * Fixed typo in ` repr ` output of strokes 

##  Syntax

  * Added support for nested [ destructuring patterns ](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings)
  * Special spaces (like thin or non-breaking spaces) are now parsed literally instead of being collapsed into normal spaces **(Breaking change)**
  * Korean text can now use emphasis syntax without adding spaces **(Breaking change)**
  * The token [ ` context ` ](/docs/reference/context/ "`context`") is now a keyword and cannot be used as an identifier anymore **(Breaking change)**
  * Nested line comments aren't allowed anymore in block comments **(Breaking change)**
  * Fixed a bug where ` x.) ` would be treated as a field access 
  * Text elements can now span across curly braces in markup 
  * Fixed silently wrong parsing when function name is parenthesized 
  * Fixed various bugs with parsing of destructuring patterns, arrays, and dictionaries 

##  Tooling & Diagnostics

  * Click-to-jump now works properly within [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") text 
  * Added suggestion for accessing a field if a method doesn't exist 
  * Improved hint for calling a function stored in a dictionary 
  * Improved errors for mutable accessor functions on arrays and dictionaries 
  * Fixed error message when calling constructor of type that doesn't have one 
  * Fixed confusing error message with nested dictionaries for strokes on different sides 
  * Fixed autocompletion for multiple packages with the same name from different namespaces 

##  Visualization

  * The [ ` image ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "`image`") function doesn't upscale images beyond their natural size anymore 
  * The [ ` image ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "`image`") function now respects rotation stored in EXIF metadata 
  * Added support for SVG filters 
  * Added alpha component to [ ` luma ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-luma) colors 
  * Added [ ` color.transparentize ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-transparentize "`color.transparentize`") and [ ` color.opacify ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-opacify "`color.opacify`") methods 
  * Improved [ ` color.negate ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-negate "`color.negate`") function 
  * Added [ ` stroke ` ](/docs/reference/text/highlight/#parameters-stroke) and [ ` radius ` ](/docs/reference/text/highlight/#parameters-radius) arguments to ` highlight ` function 
  * Changed default [ ` highlight ` ](/docs/reference/text/highlight/ "`highlight`") color to be transparent 
  * CMYK to RGB conversion is now color-managed 
  * Fixed crash with gradients in Oklch color space 
  * Fixed color-mixing for hue-based spaces 
  * Fixed bugs with color conversion 
  * SVG sizes are not rounded anymore, preventing slightly wrong aspect ratios 
  * Fixed a few other SVG-related bugs 
  * [ ` color.components ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components "`color.components`") doesn't round anything anymore 

##  Export

  * PDFs now contain named destinations for headings derived from their labels 
  * The internal PDF structure was changed to make it easier for external tools to extract or modify individual pages, avoiding a bug with Typst PDFs in Apple Preview 
  * PDFs produced by Typst should now be byte-by-byte reproducible when ` set  document  (  date  :  none  )  ` is set 
  * Added missing flag to PDF annotation 
  * Fixed multiple bugs with gradients in PDF export 
  * Fixed a bug with patterns in PDF export 
  * Fixed a bug with embedding of grayscale images in PDF export 
  * Fixed a bug with To-Unicode mapping of CFF fonts in PDF export 
  * Fixed a bug with the generation of the PDF outline 
  * Fixed a sorting bug in PDF export leading to non-reproducible output 
  * Fixed a bug with transparent text in PNG export 
  * Exported SVG files now include units in their top-level ` width ` and ` height `

##  Command line interface

  * Added support for passing [ inputs ](/docs/reference/foundations/sys/) via a CLI flag 
  * When passing the filename ` - ` , Typst will now read input from stdin 
  * Now uses the system-native TLS implementation for network fetching which should be generally more robust 
  * Watch mode will now properly detect when a previously missing file is created 
  * Added ` --color ` flag to configure whether to print colored output 
  * Fixed user agent with which packages are downloaded 
  * Updated bundled fonts to the newest versions 

##  Development

  * Added ` --vendor-openssl ` to CLI to configure whether to link OpenSSL statically instead of dynamically (not applicable to Windows and Apple platforms) 
  * Removed old tracing (and its verbosity) flag from the CLI 
  * Added new ` --timings ` flag which supersedes the old flamegraph profiling in the CLI 
  * Added minimal CLI to ` typst-docs ` crate for extracting the language and standard library documentation as JSON 
  * The ` typst_pdf::export ` function's ` ident ` argument switched from ` Option ` to ` Smart ` . It should only be set to ` Smart::Custom ` if you can provide a stable identifier (like the web app can). The CLI sets ` Smart::Auto ` . 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frozolotl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44589151?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frozolotl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Andrew15-5](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37143421?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Andrew15-5)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Enter-tainer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25521218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Myriad-Dreamin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35292584?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Myriad-Dreamin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of peng1999](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12483662?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/peng1999)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of EpicEricEE](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7191192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/EpicEricEE)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jcbhmr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/61068799?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jcbhmr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Heinenen](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37484430?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Heinenen)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tingerrr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/137803093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tingerrr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jollywatt](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/24970860?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jollywatt)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of YDX-2147483647](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/73375426?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/YDX-2147483647)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of k-84mo10](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/115140693?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/k-84mo10)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of s-cerevisiae](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/28475392?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/s-cerevisiae)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of 01mf02](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/864342?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/01mf02)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of A-Walrus](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58790821?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/A-Walrus)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of C0ffeeCode](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/27804482?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/C0ffeeCode)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of CosmicHorrorDev](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/30302768?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/CosmicHorrorDev)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of DavidMazarro](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22799724?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/DavidMazarro)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Hofer-Julian](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/30049909?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Hofer-Julian)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jocs](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9712830?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jocs)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Midbin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5499764?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Midbin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Quaqqer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/29512047?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Quaqqer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of artemist](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1226638?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/artemist)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of astrale-sharp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53686698?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/astrale-sharp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of cmoog](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7585078?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/cmoog)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of drupol](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/252042?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/drupol)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dyc3](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1808807?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dyc3)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of eltociear](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22633385?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/eltociear)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of emilyyyylime](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40892795?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/emilyyyylime)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of emmett-rayes](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/109030944?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/emmett-rayes)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of espinielli](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/891692?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/espinielli)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of evfinkn](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6924485?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/evfinkn)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of f3rn0s](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1351279?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/f3rn0s)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of freundTech](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9515067?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/freundTech)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of geekvest](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/126322776?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/geekvest)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of h-arry-smith](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/69302535?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/h-arry-smith)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of istudyatuni](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43654815?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/istudyatuni)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jaroeichler](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/88505041?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jaroeichler)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jbirnick](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6528009?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jbirnick)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kg583](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/41345727?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kg583)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mattfbacon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58113890?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mattfbacon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of max397574](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/81827001?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/max397574)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mkpoli](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3502597?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mkpoli)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mkroening](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/28776973?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mkroening)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of muzimuzhi](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6376638?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/muzimuzhi)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of nathaniel-brough](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7277663?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/nathaniel-brough)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of natsukagami](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9061737?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/natsukagami)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of nvarner](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/17197562?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/nvarner)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of onerandomusername](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/71233171?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/onerandomusername)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of pineapplehunter](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8869894?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/pineapplehunter)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of t-rapp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20061583?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/t-rapp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tertsdiepraam](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11643477?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tertsdiepraam)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of uetcis](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25654046?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/uetcis)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of violetfauna](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44212740?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/violetfauna)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of voidiz](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/29259387?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/voidiz)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of xTeamStanly](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/68441372?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/xTeamStanly)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of xalbd](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/119540449?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/xalbd)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of xkevio](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13004777?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/xkevio)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of zica87](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/59327276?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/zica87)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.11.1  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.11.1/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.10.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.10.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.8.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.8.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.8.0/)

#  Version 0.8.0 (September 13, 2023)

##  Scripting

  * Plugins (thanks to [ @astrale-sharp ](https://github.com/astrale-sharp) and [ @arnaudgolfouse ](https://github.com/arnaudgolfouse) ) 
    * Typst can now load [ plugins ](/docs/reference/foundations/plugin/) that are compiled to WebAssembly 
    * Anything that can be compiled to WebAssembly can thus be loaded as a plugin 
    * These plugins are fully encapsulated (no access to file system or network) 
    * Plugins can be shipped as part of [ packages ](/docs/reference/scripting/#packages)
    * Plugins work just the same in the web app 
  * Types are now first-class values **(Breaking change)**
    * A [ type ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/ "type") is now itself a value 
    * Some types can be called like functions (those that have a constructor), e.g. [ ` int ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/ "`int`") and [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/ "`str`")
    * Type checks are now of the form ` type  (  10  )  ==  int ` instead of the old ` type  (  10  )  ==  "integer"  ` . [ Compatibility ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/#compatibility) with the old way will remain for a while to give package authors time to upgrade, but it will be removed at some point. 
    * Methods are now syntax sugar for calling a function scoped to a type, meaning that ` "hello"  .  len  (  )  ` is equivalent to ` str  .  len  (  "hello"  )  `
  * Added support for [ ` import ` ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) renaming with ` as `
  * Added a [ ` duration ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/ "`duration`") type 
  * Added support for [ CBOR ](/docs/reference/data-loading/cbor/) encoding and decoding 
  * Added encoding and decoding functions from and to bytes for data formats: [ ` json.decode ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/json/#definitions-decode) , [ ` json.encode ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/json/#definitions-encode) , and similar functions for other formats 
  * Added [ ` array.intersperse ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-intersperse) function 
  * Added [ ` str.rev ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-rev) function 
  * Added ` calc.tau ` constant 
  * Made [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "bytes") joinable and addable 
  * Made [ ` array.zip ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-zip) function variadic 
  * Fixed bug with [ ` eval ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/eval/ "`eval`") when the ` mode ` was set to ` "math"  `
  * Fixed bug with [ ` ends-with ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-ends-with) function on strings 
  * Fixed bug with destructuring in combination with break, continue, and return 
  * Fixed argument types of [ hyperbolic functions ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-cosh) , they don't allow angles anymore **(Breaking change)**
  * Renamed some color methods: ` rgba ` becomes ` to-rgba ` , ` cmyk ` becomes ` to-cmyk ` , and ` luma ` becomes ` to-luma ` **(Breaking change)**

##  Export

  * Added SVG export (thanks to [ @Enter-tainer ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer) ) 
  * Fixed bugs with PDF font embedding 
  * Added support for page labels that reflect the [ page numbering ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-numbering) style in the PDF 

##  Text and Layout

  * Added [ ` highlight ` ](/docs/reference/text/highlight/ "`highlight`") function for highlighting text with a background color 
  * Added [ ` polygon.regular ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/#definitions-regular) function for drawing a regular polygon 
  * Added support for tabs in [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") elements alongside [ ` tab-width ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-tab-size) parameter 
  * The layout engine now tries to prevent "runts" (final lines consisting of just a single word) 
  * Added Finnish translations 
  * Added hyphenation support for Polish 
  * Improved handling of consecutive smart quotes of different kinds 
  * Fixed vertical alignments for [ ` number-align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-number-align) argument on page function **(Breaking change)**
  * Fixed weak pagebreaks after counter updates 
  * Fixed missing text in SVG when the text font is set to "New Computer Modern" 
  * Fixed translations for Chinese 
  * Fixed crash for empty text in show rule 
  * Fixed leading spaces when there's a linebreak after a number and a comma 
  * Fixed placement of floating elements in columns and other containers 
  * Fixed sizing of block containing just a single box 

##  Math

  * Added support for [ augmented matrices ](/docs/reference/math/mat/#parameters-augment)
  * Removed support for automatic matching of fences like ` | ` and ` || ` as there were too many false positives. You can use functions like [ ` abs ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-abs) or [ ` norm ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-norm) or an explicit [ ` lr ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-lr) call instead. **(Breaking change)**
  * Fixed spacing after number with decimal point in math 
  * Fixed bug with primes in subscript 
  * Fixed weak spacing 
  * Fixed crash when text within math contains a newline 

##  Tooling and Diagnostics

  * Added hints when trying to call a function stored in a dictionary without extra parentheses 
  * Fixed hint when referencing an equation without numbering 
  * Added more details to some diagnostics (e.g. when SVG decoding fails) 

##  Command line interface

  * Added ` typst update ` command for self-updating the CLI (thanks to [ @jimvdl ](https://github.com/jimvdl) ) 
  * Added download progress indicator for packages and updates 
  * Added ` --format ` argument to explicitly specify the output format 
  * The CLI now respects proxy configuration through environment variables and has a new ` --cert ` option for setting a custom CA certificate 
  * Fixed crash when field wasn't present and ` --one ` is passed to ` typst query `

##  Miscellaneous Improvements

  * Added [ page setup guide ](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/)
  * Added [ ` figure.caption ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#definitions-caption) function that can be used for simpler figure customization ( **Breaking change** because ` it.caption ` now renders the full caption with supplement in figure show rules and manual outlines) 
  * Moved ` caption-pos ` argument to ` figure.caption ` function and renamed it to ` position ` **(Breaking change)**
  * Added [ ` separator ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#definitions-caption-separator) argument to ` figure.caption ` function 
  * Added support for combination of and/or and before/after [ selectors ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)
  * Packages can now specify a [ minimum compiler version ](https://github.com/typst/packages#package-format) they require to work 
  * Fixed parser bug where method calls could be moved onto their own line for ` #  let  ` expressions in markup **(Breaking change)**
  * Fixed bugs in sentence and title case conversion for bibliographies 
  * Fixed supplements for alphanumeric and author-title bibliography styles 
  * Fixed off-by-one error in APA bibliography style 

##  Development

  * Made ` Span ` and ` FileId ` more type-safe so that all error conditions must be handled by ` World ` implementors 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Beiri22](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8210233?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Beiri22)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of bluebear94](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2975203?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/bluebear94)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jimvdl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26407533?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jimvdl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LuxxxLucy](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/19356905?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LuxxxLucy)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mattfbacon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58113890?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mattfbacon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sitandr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/60141933?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sitandr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of xkevio](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13004777?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/xkevio)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Enter-tainer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25521218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SimonRask](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33556894?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SimonRask)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Andrew15-5](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37143421?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Andrew15-5)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of KillTheMule](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4117685?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/KillTheMule)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of NeillJohnston](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/16545367?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/NeillJohnston)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SillyFreak](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1029192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SillyFreak)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of abramchikd](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/32370126?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/abramchikd)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of antonWetzel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/59712243?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/antonWetzel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of arj0019](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/92353079?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/arj0019)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of astrale-sharp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53686698?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/astrale-sharp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of damaxwell](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/918465?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/damaxwell)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dikkadev](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64754924?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dikkadev)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frozolotl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44589151?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frozolotl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kiviktnm](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/65563192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kiviktnm)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of klMse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/61806749?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/klMse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lolstork](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/137357423?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lolstork)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lukas-loering](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/52287649?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lukas-loering)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of owiecc](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6896639?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/owiecc)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of pavelzw](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/29506042?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/pavelzw)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of raphCode](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15750438?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/raphCode)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sudormrfbin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23398472?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sudormrfbin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of t-rapp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20061583?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/t-rapp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of zicklag](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25393315?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/zicklag)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of zyoshoka](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/107108195?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/zyoshoka)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.9.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.9.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.7.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.7.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.3.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.3.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.3.0/)

#  Version 0.3.0 (April 26, 2023)

##  Breaking changes

  * Renamed a few symbols: What was previous ` dot.op ` is now just ` dot ` and the basic dot is ` dot.basic ` . The same applies to ` ast ` and ` tilde ` . 
  * Renamed ` mod ` to [ ` rem ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-rem) to more accurately reflect the behavior. It will remain available as ` mod ` until the next update as a grace period. 
  * A lone underscore is not a valid identifier anymore, it can now only be used in patterns 
  * Removed ` before ` and ` after ` arguments from [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") . This is now handled through flexible [ selectors ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) combinator methods 
  * Added support for [ attachments ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-attach) (sub-, superscripts) that precede the base symbol. The ` top ` and ` bottom ` arguments have been renamed to ` t ` and ` b ` . 

##  New features

  * Added support for more complex [ strokes ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) (configurable caps, joins, and dash patterns) 
  * Added [ ` cancel ` ](/docs/reference/math/cancel/) function for equations 
  * Added support for [ destructuring ](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) in argument lists and assignments 
  * Added [ ` alt ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/#parameters-alt) text argument to image function 
  * Added [ ` toml ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/toml/ "`toml`") function for loading data from a TOML file 
  * Added [ ` zip ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-zip) , [ ` sum ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-sum) , and [ ` product ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-product) methods for arrays 
  * Added ` fact ` , ` perm ` , ` binom ` , ` gcd ` , ` lcm ` , ` atan2 ` , ` quo ` , ` trunc ` , and ` fract ` [ calculation ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/) functions 

##  Improvements

  * Text in SVGs now displays properly 
  * Typst now generates a PDF heading outline 
  * [ References ](/docs/reference/model/ref/) now provides the referenced element as a field in show rules 
  * Refined linebreak algorithm for better Chinese justification 
  * Locations are now a valid kind of selector 
  * Added a few symbols for algebra 
  * Added Spanish smart quote support 
  * Added [ ` selector ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/ "`selector`") function to turn a selector-like value into a selector on which combinator methods can be called 
  * Improved some error messages 
  * The outline and bibliography headings can now be styled with show-set rules 
  * Operations on numbers now produce an error instead of overflowing 

##  Bug fixes

  * Fixed wrong linebreak before punctuation that follows inline equations, citations, and other elements 
  * Fixed a bug with [ argument sinks ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/)
  * Fixed strokes with thickness zero 
  * Fixed hiding and show rules in math 
  * Fixed alignment in matrices 
  * Fixed some alignment bugs in equations 
  * Fixed grid cell alignment 
  * Fixed alignment of list marker and enum markers in presence of global alignment settings 
  * Fixed [ path ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/) closing 
  * Fixed compiler crash with figure references 
  * A single trailing line breaks is now ignored in math, just like in text 

##  Command line interface

  * Font path and compilation root can now be set with the environment variables ` TYPST_FONT_PATHS ` and ` TYPST_ROOT `
  * The output of ` typst fonts ` now includes the embedded fonts 

##  Development

  * Added instrumentation for debugging and optimization 
  * Added ` --update ` flag and ` UPDATE_EXPECT ` environment variable to update reference images for tests 
  * You can now run a specific subtest with ` --subtest `
  * Tests now run on multiple threads 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SUPERCILEX](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9490724?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SUPERCILEX)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of HarmoGlace](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23212967?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/HarmoGlace)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Marmare314](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/49279081?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Marmare314)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of barvirm](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15948420?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/barvirm)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of joeldierkes](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8125678?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/joeldierkes)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of peng1999](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12483662?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/peng1999)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of AlistairKeiller](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43255248?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/AlistairKeiller)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Luis-Licea](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/48164786?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Luis-Licea)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SekoiaTree](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/51149447?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SekoiaTree)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of astrale-sharp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53686698?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/astrale-sharp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of birktj](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2932651?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/birktj)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dccsillag](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15617291?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dccsillag)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of goggle](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1856425?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/goggle)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of johannes-wolf](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/519002?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/johannes-wolf)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mattfbacon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58113890?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mattfbacon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of michidk](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3979930?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/michidk)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of neunenak](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/311545?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/neunenak)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of pan93412](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/28441561?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/pan93412)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of rpitasky](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/111201305?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/rpitasky)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of thinety](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/51510921?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/thinety)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tranzystorekk](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5671049?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tranzystorekk)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of werifu](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53432474?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/werifu)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.4.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.4.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.2.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.2.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.2.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.2.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.2.0/)

#  Version 0.2.0 (April 11, 2023)

##  Breaking changes

  * Removed support for iterating over index and value in [ for loops ](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops) . This is now handled via unpacking and enumerating. Same goes for the [ ` map ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-map) method. 
  * [ Dictionaries ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) now iterate in insertion order instead of alphabetical order. 

##  New features

  * Added [ unpacking syntax ](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) for let bindings, which allows things like ` let  (  1  ,  2  )  =  array `
  * Added [ ` enumerate ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-enumerate) method 
  * Added [ ` path ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/ "`path`") function for drawing BÃ©zier paths 
  * Added [ ` layout ` ](/docs/reference/layout/layout/ "`layout`") function to access the size of the surrounding page or container 
  * Added ` key ` parameter to [ ` sorted ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-sorted) method 

##  Command line interface

  * Fixed ` --open ` flag blocking the program 
  * New Computer Modern font is now embedded into the binary 
  * Shell completions and man pages can now be generated by setting the ` GEN_ARTIFACTS ` environment variable to a target directory and then building Typst 

##  Miscellaneous improvements

  * Fixed page numbering in outline 
  * Added basic i18n for a few more languages (AR, NB, CS, NN, PL, SL, ES, UA, VI) 
  * Added a few numbering patterns (Ihora, Chinese) 
  * Added ` sinc ` [ operator ](/docs/reference/math/op/)
  * Fixed bug where math could not be hidden with [ ` hide ` ](/docs/reference/layout/hide/ "`hide`")
  * Fixed sizing issues with box, block, and shapes 
  * Fixed some translations 
  * Fixed inversion of "R" in [ ` cal ` ](/docs/reference/math/variants/#functions-cal) and [ ` frak ` ](/docs/reference/math/variants/#functions-frak) styles 
  * Fixed some styling issues in math 
  * Fixed supplements of references to headings 
  * Fixed syntax highlighting of identifiers in certain scenarios 
  * [ Ratios ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) can now be multiplied with more types and be converted to [ floats ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) with the [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") function 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Marmare314](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/49279081?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Marmare314)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dccsillag](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15617291?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dccsillag)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of EpicEricEE](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7191192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/EpicEricEE)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of G1gg1L3s](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43041209?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/G1gg1L3s)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of RLangendam](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1749390?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/RLangendam)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Raphael-CV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/95867256?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Raphael-CV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SekoiaTree](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/51149447?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SekoiaTree)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SteamedFish](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/69167?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SteamedFish)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of asayers](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/877109?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/asayers)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of asibahi](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/17417266?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/asibahi)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of astrale-sharp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53686698?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/astrale-sharp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of classabbyamp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5366828?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/classabbyamp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of cmoog](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7585078?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/cmoog)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of felipeacsi](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1522083?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/felipeacsi)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of figsoda](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40620903?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/figsoda)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of ichxorya](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26222301?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/ichxorya)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jakobrs](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/10761079?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jakobrs)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of michidk](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3979930?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/michidk)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of radimsuckr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2447438?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/radimsuckr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of rqy2002](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22741844?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/rqy2002)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of s-zymon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12126978?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/s-zymon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tbethe](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58276357?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tbethe)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of teenjuna](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53595243?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/teenjuna)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of viddrobnic](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5161200?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/viddrobnic)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.3.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.3.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.1.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.1.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.1.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.1.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.1.0/)

#  Version 0.1.0 (April 04, 2023)

##  Breaking changes

  * When using the CLI, you now have to use subcommands: 
    * ` typst compile file.typ ` or ` typst c file.typ ` to create a PDF 
    * ` typst watch file.typ ` or ` typst w file.typ ` to compile and watch 
    * ` typst fonts ` to list all fonts 
  * Manual counters now start at zero. Read the "How to step" section [ here ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) for more details 
  * The [ bibliography styles ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/#parameters-style) ` "author-date"  ` and ` "author-title"  ` were renamed to ` "chicago-author-date"  ` and ` "chicago-author-title"  `

##  Figure improvements

  * Figures now automatically detect their content and adapt their behavior. Figures containing tables, for instance, are automatically prefixed with "Table X" and have a separate counter 
  * The figure's supplement (e.g. "Figure" or "Table") can now be customized 
  * In addition, figures can now be completely customized because the show rule gives access to the automatically resolved kind, supplement, and counter 

##  Bibliography improvements

  * The [ ` bibliography ` ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/ "`bibliography`") now also accepts multiple bibliography paths (as an array) 
  * Parsing of BibLaTeX files is now more permissive (accepts non-numeric edition, pages, volumes, dates, and Jabref-style comments; fixed abbreviation parsing) 
  * Labels and references can now include ` : ` and ` . ` except at the end 
  * Fixed APA bibliography ordering 

##  Drawing additions

  * Added [ ` polygon ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/ "`polygon`") function for drawing polygons 
  * Added support for clipping in [ boxes ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-clip) and [ blocks ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-clip)

##  Command line interface

  * Now returns with non-zero status code if there is an error 
  * Now watches the root directory instead of the current one 
  * Now puts the PDF file next to input file by default 
  * Now accepts more kinds of input files (e.g. ` /dev/stdin ` ) 
  * Added ` --open ` flag to directly open the PDF 

##  Miscellaneous improvements

  * Added [ ` yaml ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/yaml/ "`yaml`") function to load data from YAML files 
  * Added basic i18n for a few more languages (IT, RU, ZH, FR, PT) 
  * Added numbering support for Hebrew 
  * Added support for [ integers ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) with base 2, 8, and 16 
  * Added symbols for double bracket and laplace operator 
  * The [ ` link ` ](/docs/reference/model/link/ "`link`") function now accepts [ labels ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)
  * The link syntax now allows more characters 
  * Improved justification of Japanese and Chinese text 
  * Calculation functions behave more consistently w.r.t to non-real results 
  * Replaced deprecated angle brackets 
  * Reduced maximum function call depth from 256 to 64 
  * Fixed [ ` first-line-indent ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-first-line-indent) being not applied when a paragraph starts with styled text 
  * Fixed extraneous spacing in unary operators in equations 
  * Fixed block spacing, e.g. in ` block  (  above  :  1cm  ,  below  :  1cm  ,  ..  )  `
  * Fixed styling of text operators in math 
  * Fixed invalid parsing of language tag in raw block with a single backtick 
  * Fixed bugs with displaying counters and state 
  * Fixed crash related to page counter 
  * Fixed crash when [ ` symbol ` ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/ "`symbol`") function was called without arguments 
  * Fixed crash in bibliography generation 
  * Fixed access to label of certain content elements 
  * Fixed line number in error message for CSV parsing 
  * Fixed invalid autocompletion after certain markup elements 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of barvirm](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15948420?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/barvirm)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of HarmoGlace](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23212967?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/HarmoGlace)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of figsoda](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40620903?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/figsoda)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frozolotl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44589151?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frozolotl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of johannes-wolf](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/519002?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/johannes-wolf)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of naim94a](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/227396?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/naim94a)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of CGMossa](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1063624?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/CGMossa)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of FilipAndersson245](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/17986183?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/FilipAndersson245)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of GabrielDertoni](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13651052?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/GabrielDertoni)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of P-Andersson](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/17784951?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/P-Andersson)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SekoiaTree](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/51149447?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SekoiaTree)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of asayers](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/877109?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/asayers)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of birktj](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2932651?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/birktj)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frungl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/82895777?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frungl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jinhao-huang](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/80573215?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jinhao-huang)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of loewenheim](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7622248?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/loewenheim)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lvignoli](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/97944962?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lvignoli)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lxndio](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1679267?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lxndio)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of marcoradocchia](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/74802223?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/marcoradocchia)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mateusfccp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4605213?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mateusfccp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of ollelogdahl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37961475?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/ollelogdahl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of samlich](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1349989?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/samlich)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of user202729](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25191436?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/user202729)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of utilForever](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5622661?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/utilForever)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of wrenger](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20145354?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/wrenger)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of yichenchong](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40590448?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/yichenchong)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of zrr1999](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46243324?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/zrr1999)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.2.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.2.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Earlier
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/earlier/)



# **docs/changelog/0.12.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.12.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.12.0/)

#  Version 0.12.0 (October 18, 2024)

##  Highlights

  * Added support for multi-column floating [ placement ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-scope) and [ figures ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-scope)
  * Added support for automatic [ line numbering ](/docs/reference/model/par/#definitions-line) (often used in academic papers) 
  * Typst's layout engine is now multithreaded. Typical speedups are 2-3x for larger documents. The multithreading operates on page break boundaries, so explicit page breaks are necessary for it to kick in. 
  * Paragraph justification was optimized with a new two-pass algorithm. Speedups are larger for shorter paragraphs and go up to 6x. 
  * Highly reduced PDF file sizes due to better font subsetting (thanks to [ @LaurenzV ](https://github.com/LaurenzV) ) 
  * Emoji are now exported properly in PDF 
  * Added initial support for PDF/A. For now, only the PDF/A-2b profile is supported, but more is planned for the future. 
  * Added various options for configuring the CLI's environment (fonts, package paths, etc.) 
  * Text show rules now match across multiple text elements 
  * Block-level equations can now optionally break over multiple pages 
  * Fixed a bug where some fonts would not print correctly on professional printers 
  * Fixed a long-standing bug which could cause headings to be orphaned at the bottom of the page 

##  Layout

  * Added support for multi-column floating placement and figures via [ ` place.scope ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-scope "`place.scope`") and [ ` figure.scope ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-scope "`figure.scope`") . Two-column documents should now prefer ` set  page  (  columns  :  2  )  ` over ` show  :  column  .  with  (  2  )  ` (see the [ page setup guide ](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/#columns) ). 
  * Added support for automatic [ line numbering ](/docs/reference/model/par/#definitions-line) (often used in academic papers) 
  * Added [ ` par.spacing ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing "`par.spacing`") property for configuring paragraph spacing. This should now be used instead of ` show  par  :  set  block  (  spacing  :  ..  )  ` **(Breaking change)**
  * Block-level elements like lists, grids, and stacks now show themselves as blocks and are thus affected by all block properties (e.g. ` stroke ` ) rather than just ` spacing ` **(Breaking change)**
  * Added [ ` block.sticky ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-sticky "`block.sticky`") property which prevents a page break after a block 
  * Added [ ` place.flush ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#definitions-flush "`place.flush`") function which forces all floating figures to be placed before any further content 
  * Added [ ` skew ` ](/docs/reference/layout/skew/ "`skew`") function 
  * Added ` auto  ` option for [ ` page.header ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-header "`page.header`") and [ ` page.footer ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-footer "`page.footer`") which results in an automatic header/footer based on the numbering (which was previously inaccessible after a change) 
  * Added ` gap ` and ` justify ` parameters to [ ` repeat ` ](/docs/reference/layout/repeat/ "`repeat`") function 
  * Added ` width ` and ` height ` parameters to the [ ` measure ` ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/ "`measure`") function to define the space in which the content should be measured. Especially useful in combination with [ ` layout ` ](/docs/reference/layout/layout/ "`layout`") . 
  * The height of a ` block ` , ` image ` , ` rect ` , ` square ` , ` ellipse ` , or ` circle ` can now be specified in [ fractional units ](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)
  * The [ ` scale ` ](/docs/reference/layout/scale/ "`scale`") function now supports absolute lengths for ` x ` , ` y ` , ` factor ` . This way an element of unknown size can be scaled to a fixed size. 
  * The values of ` block.above ` and ` block.below ` can now be retrieved in context expressions. 
  * Increased accuracy of conversions between absolute units (pt, mm, cm, in) 
  * Fixed a bug which could cause headings to be orphaned at the bottom of the page 
  * Fixed footnotes within breakable blocks appearing on the page where the breakable block ends instead of at the page where the footnote marker is 
  * Fixed numbering of nested footnotes and footnotes in floats 
  * Fixed empty pages appearing when a [ context ](/docs/reference/context/ "context") expression wraps whole pages 
  * Fixed ` set  block  (  spacing  :  x  )  ` behaving differently from ` set  block  (  above  :  x  ,  below  :  x  )  `
  * Fixed behavior of [ ` rotate ` ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/ "`rotate`") and [ ` scale ` ](/docs/reference/layout/scale/ "`scale`") with ` reflow:  true  `
  * Fixed interaction of ` align  (  horizon  )  ` and ` v  (  1fr  )  `
  * Fixed various bugs where floating placement would yield overlapping results 
  * Fixed a bug where widow/orphan prevention would unnecessarily move text into the next column 
  * Fixed [ weak spacing ](/docs/reference/layout/h/#parameters-weak) not being trimmed at the start and end of lines in a paragraph (only at the start and end of paragraphs) 
  * Fixed interaction of weak page break and [ ` pagebreak.to ` ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/#parameters-to "`pagebreak.to`")
  * Fixed compilation output of a single weak page break 
  * Fixed crash when [ padding ](/docs/reference/layout/pad/) by ` 100%  `

##  Text

  * Tuned hyphenation: It is less eager by default and hyphenations close to the edges of words are now discouraged more strongly **(May lead to larger layout reflows)**
  * New default font: Libertinus Serif. This is the maintained successor to the old default font Linux Libertine. **(May lead to smaller reflows)**
  * Setting the font to an unavailable family will now result in a warning 
  * Implemented a new smart quote algorithm, fixing various bugs where smart quotes weren't all that smart 
  * Added [ ` text.costs ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-costs "`text.costs`") parameter for tweaking various parameters that affect the choices of the layout engine during text layout 
  * Added ` typm ` highlighting mode for math in [ raw blocks ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-lang)
  * Added basic i18n for Galician, Catalan, Latin, Icelandic, Hebrew 
  * Implemented hyphenation duplication for Czech, Croatian, Lower Sorbian, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, and Spanish. 
  * The [ ` smallcaps ` ](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/ "`smallcaps`") function is now an element function and can thereby be used in show(-set) rules. 
  * The [ ` raw.theme ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-theme "`raw.theme`") parameter can now be set to ` none  ` to disable highlighting even in the presence of a language tag, and to ` auto  ` to reset to the default 
  * Multiple [ stylistic sets ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-stylistic-set) can now be enabled at once 
  * Fixed the Chinese translation for "Equation" 
  * Fixed that hyphenation could occur outside of words 
  * Fixed incorrect layout of bidirectional text in edge cases 
  * Fixed layout of paragraphs with explicit trailing whitespace 
  * Fixed bugs related to empty paragraphs created via ` #"" `
  * Fixed accidental trailing spaces for line breaks immediately preceding an inline equation 
  * Fixed [ ` text.historical-ligatures ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-historical-ligatures "`text.historical-ligatures`") not working correctly 
  * Fixed accidental repetition of Thai characters around line breaks in some circumstances 
  * Fixed [ smart quotes ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/) for Swiss French 
  * New font metadata exceptions for Archivo, Kaiti SC, and Kaiti TC 
  * Updated bundled New Computer Modern fonts to version 6.0 

##  Math

  * Block-level equations can now break over multiple pages if enabled via ` show  math  .  equation  :  set  block  (  breakable  :  true  )  ` . 
  * Matrix and vector sizing is now more consistent across different cell contents 
  * Added [ ` stretch ` ](/docs/reference/math/stretch/) function for manually or automatically stretching characters like arrows or parentheses horizontally or vertically 
  * Improved layout of attachments on parenthesized as well as under- or overlined expressions 
  * Improved layout of nested attachments resulting from code like ` #  let  a0  =  $  a  _  0  $  ;  $  a0  ^  1  $  `
  * Improved layout of primes close to superscripts 
  * Improved layout of fractions 
  * Typst now makes use of math-specific height-dependent kerning information in some fonts for better attachment layout 
  * The ` floor ` and ` ceil ` functions in math are now callable symbols, such that ` $  floor  (  x  )  =  lr  (  floor  .  l  x  floor  .  r  )  $  `
  * The [ ` mat.delim ` ](/docs/reference/math/mat/#parameters-delim) , [ ` vec.delim ` ](/docs/reference/math/vec/#parameters-delim) , and [ ` cases.delim ` ](/docs/reference/math/cases/#parameters-delim) parameters now allow any character that is considered a delimiter or "fence" (e.g. |) by Unicode. The ` delim:  "||"  ` notation is _not_ supported anymore and should be replaced by ` delim: bar  .  double ` **(Minor breaking change)**
  * Added [ ` vec.align ` ](/docs/reference/math/vec/#parameters-align) and [ ` mat.align ` ](/docs/reference/math/mat/#parameters-align) parameters 
  * Added [ ` underparen ` ](/docs/reference/math/underover/#functions-underparen) , [ ` overparen ` ](/docs/reference/math/underover/#functions-overparen) , [ ` undershell ` ](/docs/reference/math/underover/#functions-undershell) , and [ ` overshell ` ](/docs/reference/math/underover/#functions-overshell)
  * Added ` ~ ` shorthand for ` tilde.op ` in math mode **(Minor breaking change)**
  * Fixed baseline alignment of equation numbers 
  * Fixed positioning of corner brackets (â, â, â, â) 
  * Fixed baseline of large roots 
  * Fixed multiple minor layout bugs with attachments 
  * Fixed that alignment points could affect line height in math 
  * Fixed that spaces could show up between text and invisible elements like [ ` metadata ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/metadata/ "`metadata`") in math 
  * Fixed a crash with recursive show rules in math 
  * Fixed [ ` lr.size ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-lr-size) not affecting characters enclosed in [ ` mid ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-mid) in some cases 
  * Fixed resolving of em units in sub- and superscripts 
  * Fixed bounding box of inline equations when a [ text edge ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-top-edge) is set to ` "bounds"  `

##  Introspection

  * Implemented a new system by which Typst tracks where elements end up on the pages. This may lead to subtly different behavior in introspections. **(Breaking change)**
  * Fixed various bugs with wrong counter behavior in complex layout situations, through a new, more principled implementation 
  * Counter updates can now be before the first, in between, and after the last page when isolated by weak page breaks. This allows, for instance, updating a counter before the first page header and background. 
  * Fixed logical ordering of introspections within footnotes and figures 
  * Fixed incorrect [ ` here().position() ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/) when [ ` place ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/ "`place`") was used in a context expression 
  * Fixed resolved positions of elements (in particular, headings) whose show rule emits an invisible element (like a state update) before a page break 
  * Fixed behavior of stepping a counter at a deeper level than its current state has 
  * Fixed citation formatting not working in table headers and a few other places 
  * Displaying the footnote counter will now respect the footnote numbering style 

##  Model

  * Document set rules do not need to be at the very start of the document anymore. The only restriction is that they must not occur inside of layout containers. 
  * The ` spacing ` property of [ lists ](/docs/reference/model/list/#parameters-spacing) , [ enumerations ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#parameters-spacing) , and [ term lists ](/docs/reference/model/terms/#parameters-spacing) is now also respected for tight lists 
  * Tight lists now only attach (with tighter spacing) to preceding paragraphs, not arbitrary blocks 
  * The [ ` quote ` ](/docs/reference/model/quote/ "`quote`") element is now locatable (can be used in queries) 
  * The bibliography heading now uses ` depth ` instead of ` level ` so that its level can still be configured via a show-set rule 
  * Added support for more [ numbering ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/ "numbering") formats: Devanagari, Eastern Arabic, Bengali, and circled numbers 
  * Added [ ` hanging-indent ` ](/docs/reference/model/heading/#parameters-hanging-indent) parameter to heading function to tweak the appearance of multi-line headings and improved default appearance of multi-line headings 
  * Improved handling of bidirectional text in outline entry 
  * Fixed document set rules being ignored in an otherwise empty document 
  * Fixed document set rules not being usable in context expressions 
  * Fixed bad interaction between ` set  document ` and ` set  page `
  * Fixed ` show  figure  :  set  align  (  ..  )  ` . Since the default figure alignment is now a show-set rule, it is not revoked by ` show  figure  :  it  => it  .  body ` anymore. **(Minor breaking change)**
  * Fixed numbering of footnote references 
  * Fixed spacing after bibliography heading 

##  Bibliography

  * The Hayagriva YAML ` publisher ` field can now accept a dictionary with a ` location ` key. The top-level ` location ` key is now primarily intended for event and item locations. 
  * Multiple page ranges with prefixes and suffixes are now allowed 
  * Added ` director ` and catch-all editor types to BibLaTeX parsing 
  * Added support for disambiguation to alphanumeric citation style 
  * The year 0 will now render as 1BC 
  * Fixes for sorting of bibliography entries 
  * Fixed pluralization of page range labels 
  * Fixed sorting of citations by their number 
  * Fixed how citation number ranges collapse 
  * Fixed when the short form of a title is used 
  * Fixed parsing of unbalanced dollars in BibLaTeX ` url ` field 
  * Updated built-in citation styles 

##  Visualization

  * Added ` fill-rule ` parameter to [ ` path ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/#parameters-fill-rule) and [ ` polygon ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/#parameters-fill-rule) functions 
  * Fixed color mixing and gradients for [ Luma colors ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-luma)
  * Fixed conversion from Luma to CMYK colors 
  * Fixed offset gradient strokes in PNG export 
  * Fixed unintended cropping of some SVGs 
  * SVGs with foreign objects now produce a warning as they will likely not render correctly in Typst 

##  Syntax

  * Added support for nested imports like ` import  "file.typ"  :  module  .  item `
  * Added support for parenthesized imports like ` import  "file.typ"  :  (  a  ,  b  ,  c  )  ` . With those, the import list can break over multiple lines. 
  * Fixed edge case in parsing of reference syntax 
  * Fixed edge case in parsing of heading, list, enum, and term markers immediately followed by comments 
  * Fixed rare crash in parsing of parenthesized expressions 

##  Scripting

  * Added new fixed-point [ ` decimal ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`") number type for highly precise arithmetic on numbers in base 10, as needed for finance 
  * Added ` std ` module for accessing standard library definitions even when a variable with the same name shadows/overwrites it 
  * Added [ ` array.to-dict ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-to-dict "`array.to-dict`") , [ ` array.reduce ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-reduce "`array.reduce`") , [ ` array.windows ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-windows "`array.windows`") methods 
  * Added ` exact ` argument to [ ` array.zip ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-zip "`array.zip`")
  * Added [ ` arguments.at ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#definitions-at "`arguments.at`") method 
  * Added [ ` int.from-bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-from-bytes "`int.from-bytes`") , [ ` int.to-bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/#definitions-to-bytes "`int.to-bytes`") , [ ` float.from-bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/#definitions-from-bytes "`float.from-bytes`") , and [ ` float.to-bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/#definitions-to-bytes "`float.to-bytes`")
  * Added proper support for negative values of the ` digits ` parameter of [ ` calc.round ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-round "`calc.round`") (the behaviour existed before but was subtly broken) 
  * Conversions from [ ` int ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/ "`int`") to [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") will now error instead of saturating if the float is too large **(Minor breaking change)**
  * Added ` float.nan ` and ` float.inf ` , removed ` calc.nan ` **(Minor breaking change)**
  * Certain symbols are now generally callable like functions and not only specifically in math. Examples are accents or [ ` floor ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-floor) and [ ` ceil ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-ceil) . 
  * Improved [ ` repr ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/ "`repr`") of relative values, sequences, infinities, NaN, ` type  (  none  )  ` and ` type  (  auto  )  `
  * Fixed crash on whole packages (rather than just files) cyclically importing each other 
  * Fixed return type of [ ` calc.round ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-round "`calc.round`") on integers when a non-zero value is provided for ` digits `

##  Styling

  * Text show rules now match across multiple text elements 
  * The string ` " ` in a text show rule now matches smart quotes 
  * Fixed a long-standing styling bug where the header and footer would incorrectly inherit styles from a lone element on the page (e.g. a heading) 
  * Fixed ` set  page ` not working directly after a counter/state update 
  * Page fields configured via an explicit ` page  (  ..  )  [  ..  ]  ` call can now be properly retrieved in context expressions 

##  Export

  * Highly reduced PDF file sizes due to better font subsetting 
  * Emoji are now exported properly in PDF 
  * Added initial support for PDF/A. For now, only the standard PDF/A-2b is supported, but more is planned for the future. Enabled via ` --pdf-standard a-2b ` in the CLI and via the UI in File > Export as > PDF in the web app. 
  * Setting [ ` page.fill ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-fill "`page.fill`") to ` none  ` will now lead to transparent pages instead of white ones in PNG and SVG. The new default of ` auto  ` means transparent for PDF and white for PNG and SVG. 
  * Improved text copy-paste from PDF in complex scenarios 
  * Exported SVGs now contain the ` data-typst-label ` attribute on groups resulting from labelled [ boxes ](/docs/reference/layout/box/) and [ blocks ](/docs/reference/layout/block/)
  * Fixed a bug where some fonts would not print correctly on professional printers 
  * Fixed a bug where transparency could leak from one PDF object to another 
  * Fixed a bug with CMYK gradients in PDF 
  * Fixed various bugs with export of Oklab gradients in PDF 
  * Fixed crashes related to rendering of non-outline glyphs 
  * Two small fixes for PDF standard conformance 

##  Performance

  * Typst's layout engine is now multithreaded. Typical speedups are 2-3x for larger documents. The multithreading operates on page break boundaries, so explicit page breaks are necessary for it to kick in. 
  * Paragraph justification was optimized with a new two-pass algorithm. Speedups are larger for shorter paragraphs and range from 1-6x. 

##  Command Line Interface

  * Added ` --pages ` option to select specific page ranges to export 
  * Added ` --package-path ` and ` --package-cache-path ` as well as ` TYPST_PACKAGE_PATH ` and ` TYPST_PACKAGE_CACHE_PATH ` environment variables for configuring where packages are loaded from and cached in, respectively 
  * Added ` --ignore-system-fonts ` flag to disable system fonts fully for better reproducibility 
  * Added ` --make-deps ` argument for outputting the dependencies of the current compilation as a Makefile 
  * Added ` --pretty ` option to ` typst query ` , with the default now being to minify (only applies to JSON format) 
  * Added ` --backup-path ` to ` typst update ` to configure where the previous version is backed up 
  * Added useful links to help output 
  * The CLI will now greet users who invoke just ` typst ` for the first time 
  * The document can now be written to stdout by passing ` - ` as the output filename (for PDF or single-page image export) 
  * Typst will now emit a proper error message instead of failing silently when the certificate specified by ` --cert ` or ` TYPST_CERT ` could not be loaded 
  * The CLI now respects the ` SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH ` environment variable for better reproducibility 
  * When exporting multiple images, you can now use ` t ` (total pages), ` p ` (current page), and ` 0p ` (zero-padded current page, same as current ` n ` ) in the output path 
  * The input and output paths now allow non-UTF-8 values 
  * Times are now formatted more consistently across the CLI 
  * Fixed a bug related to the ` --open ` flag 
  * Fixed path completions for ` typst ` not working in zsh 

##  Tooling and Diagnostics

  * The "compiler" field for specifying the minimum Typst version required by a package now supports imprecise bounds like 0.11 instead of 0.11.0 
  * Added warning when a label is ignored by Typst because no preceding labellable element exists 
  * Added hint when trying to apply labels in code mode 
  * Added hint when trying to call a standard library function that has been shadowed/overwritten by a local definition 
  * Added hint when trying to set both the language and the region in the ` lang ` parameter 
  * Added hints when trying to compile non-Typst files (e.g. after having typed ` typst c file.pdf ` by accident) 
  * Added hint when a string is used where a label is expected 
  * Added hint when a stray end of a block comment ( ` */ ` ) is encountered 
  * Added hints when destructuring arrays with the wrong number of elements 
  * Improved error message when trying to use a keyword as an identifier in a let binding 
  * Improved error messages when accessing nonexistent fields 
  * Improved error message when a package exists, but not the specified version 
  * Improved hints for unknown variables 
  * Improved hint when trying to convert a length with non-zero em component to an absolute unit 
  * Fixed a crash that could be triggered by certain hover tooltips 
  * Fixed an off-by-one error in to-source jumps when first-line-indent is enabled 
  * Fixed suggestions for ` . ` after the end of an inline code expressions 
  * Fixed autocompletions being duplicated in a specific case 

##  Symbols

  * New: ` parallelogram ` , ` original ` , ` image ` , ` crossmark ` , ` rest ` , ` natural ` , ` flat ` , ` sharp ` , ` tiny ` , ` miny ` , ` copyleft ` , ` trademark ` , ` emoji.beet ` , ` emoji.fingerprint ` , ` emoji.harp ` , ` emoji.shovel ` , ` emoji.splatter ` , ` emoji.tree.leafless ` , 
  * New variants: ` club.stroked ` , ` diamond.stroked ` , ` heart.stroked ` , ` spade.stroked ` , ` gt.neq ` , ` lt.neq ` , ` checkmark.heavy ` , ` paren.double ` , ` brace.double ` , ` shell.double ` , ` arrow.turn ` , ` plus.double ` , ` plus.triple ` , ` infinity.bar ` , ` infinity.incomplete ` , ` infinity.tie ` , ` multimap.double ` , ` ballot.check ` , ` ballot.check.heavy ` , ` emptyset.bar ` , ` emptyset.circle ` , ` emptyset.arrow.l ` , ` emptyset.arrow.r ` , ` parallel.struck ` , ` parallel.eq ` , ` parallel.equiv ` , ` parallel.slanted ` , ` parallel.tilde ` , ` angle.l.curly ` , ` angle.l.dot ` , ` angle.r.curly ` , ` angle.r.dot ` , ` angle.oblique ` , ` angle.s ` , ` em.two ` , ` em.three `
  * Renamed: ` turtle ` to ` shell ` , ` notes ` to ` note ` , ` ballot.x ` to ` ballot.cross ` , ` succ.eq ` to ` succ.curly.eq ` , ` prec.eq ` to ` prec.curly.eq ` , ` servicemark ` to ` trademark.service ` , ` emoji.face.tired ` to ` emoji.face.distress ` **(Breaking change)**
  * Changed codepoint: ` prec.eq ` , ` prec.neq ` , ` succ.eq ` , ` succ.neq ` , ` triangle ` from â· to â³, ` emoji.face.tired ` **(Breaking change)**
  * Removed: ` lt.curly ` in favor of ` prec ` , ` gt.curly ` in favor of ` succ ` **(Breaking change)**

##  Deprecations

  * [ ` counter.display ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-display "`counter.display`") without an established context 
  * [ ` counter.final ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-final "`counter.final`") with a location 
  * [ ` state.final ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-final "`state.final`") with a location 
  * [ ` state.display ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-display "`state.display`")
  * [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") with a location as the second argument 
  * [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`") with a callback function 
  * [ ` measure ` ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/ "`measure`") with styles 
  * [ ` style ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/style/ "`style`")

##  Development

  * Added ` typst-kit ` crate which provides useful APIs for ` World ` implementors 
  * Added go-to-definition API in ` typst-ide `
  * Added package manifest parsing APIs to ` typst-syntax `
  * As the compiler is now capable of multithreading, ` World ` implementations must satisfy ` Send ` and ` Sync `
  * Changed signature of ` World::main ` to allow for the scenario where the main file could not be loaded 
  * Removed ` Tracer ` in favor of ` Warned<T> ` and ` typst::trace ` function 
  * The ` xz2 ` dependency used by the self-updater is now statically linked 
  * The Dockerfile now has an ` ENTRYPOINT ` directive 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Leedehai](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18319900?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Leedehai)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Coekjan](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/69834864?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Coekjan)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of bluebear94](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2975203?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/bluebear94)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mkorje](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/97375244?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mkorje)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of EpicEricEE](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7191192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/EpicEricEE)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of frozolotl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44589151?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/frozolotl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of elegaanz](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/16254623?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/elegaanz)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of knuesel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2412819?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/knuesel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Andrew15-5](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37143421?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Andrew15-5)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Enter-tainer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25521218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Myriad-Dreamin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35292584?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Myriad-Dreamin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of rikhuijzer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20724914?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/rikhuijzer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of ssotoen](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/68116836?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/ssotoen)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tingerrr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/137803093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tingerrr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of FlorentCLMichel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/56166507?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/FlorentCLMichel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of T0mstone](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/39707032?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/T0mstone)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of drupol](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/252042?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/drupol)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of emilyyyylime](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40892795?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/emilyyyylime)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of A-Walrus](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58790821?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/A-Walrus)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LuizAugustoPapa](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/112978478?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LuizAugustoPapa)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PepinhoJp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/24254834?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PepinhoJp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of freundTech](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9515067?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/freundTech)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of gabriel-araujjo](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/3980936?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/gabriel-araujjo)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of istudyatuni](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43654815?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/istudyatuni)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jbirnick](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6528009?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jbirnick)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jsoref](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2119212?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jsoref)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mattfbacon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58113890?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mattfbacon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mtoohey31](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/36740602?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mtoohey31)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of nz366](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/180265222?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/nz366)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of omniwrench](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/44841357?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/omniwrench)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of shinyfelix](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/101457412?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/shinyfelix)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tulio240](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/113527485?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tulio240)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of 3w36zj6](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/52315048?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/3w36zj6)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of AnarchistHoneybun](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/74085528?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/AnarchistHoneybun)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Bzero](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64414289?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Bzero)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Heinenen](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37484430?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Heinenen)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of HydroH](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/14823453?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/HydroH)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of JHenneberg](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/6606609?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/JHenneberg)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jacobgarm](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37753339?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jacobgarm)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jocs](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9712830?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jocs)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of JonPichel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47296456?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/JonPichel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of JustForFun88](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/100504524?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/JustForFun88)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LingkKang](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/104191582?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LingkKang)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Lucy-73](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/115893318?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Lucy-73)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LuxxxLucy](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/19356905?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LuxxxLucy)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of NiklasEi](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12236672?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/NiklasEi)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Orange149](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/89233794?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Orange149)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of QuarticCat](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/70888415?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/QuarticCat)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SillyFreak](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1029192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SillyFreak)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of T1mVo](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/94936637?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/T1mVo)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Tom4sCruz](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/103905440?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Tom4sCruz)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of UARTman](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/21099202?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/UARTman)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of YDX-2147483647](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/73375426?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/YDX-2147483647)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of aaron-jack-manning](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/86413837?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/aaron-jack-manning)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of arbrauns](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/89400397?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/arbrauns)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of astrale-sharp](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/53686698?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/astrale-sharp)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of bk](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25031?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/bk)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of chicoferreira](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/36338391?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/chicoferreira)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of ctmbl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/79016298?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/ctmbl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of danielfleischer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22022514?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/danielfleischer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of etiennecollin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/99756528?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/etiennecollin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of flauschpantoffel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/79235640?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/flauschpantoffel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of fynsta](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/63241108?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/fynsta)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of giannissc](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20277283?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/giannissc)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of haenoe](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57222371?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/haenoe)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of hardlydearly](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/167623323?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/hardlydearly)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of hettlage](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11633365?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/hettlage)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of huajingyun01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/74996522?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/huajingyun01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of inferiorhumanorgans](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/871927?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/inferiorhumanorgans)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jakobjpeters](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/59785931?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jakobjpeters)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jiricekcz](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/36630605?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jiricekcz)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of joserlopes](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/95137505?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/joserlopes)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kamack38](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64226248?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kamack38)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kimushun1101](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13430937?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kimushun1101)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kravchenkoloznia](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/32360199?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kravchenkoloznia)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of matze](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/115270?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/matze)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of niklasmohrin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47574893?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/niklasmohrin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of nishanthkarthik](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7759435?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/nishanthkarthik)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of nixon-voxell](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43715558?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/nixon-voxell)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of saecki](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43008152?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/saecki)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of unclebean](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8064750?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/unclebean)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of waywardmonkeys](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/178582?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/waywardmonkeys)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of wrzian](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/133046678?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/wrzian)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of zombiepigdragon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26581798?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/zombiepigdragon)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Changelog  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.11.1  Next
page  ](/docs/changelog/0.11.1/)



# **docs/changelog/0.7.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.7.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.7.0/)

#  Version 0.7.0 (August 7, 2023)

##  Text and Layout

  * Added support for floating figures through the [ ` placement ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-placement) argument on the figure function 
  * Added support for arbitrary floating content through the [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-float) argument on the place function 
  * Added support for loading ` .sublime-syntax ` files as highlighting [ syntaxes ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-syntaxes) for raw blocks 
  * Added support for loading ` .tmTheme ` files as highlighting [ themes ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-theme) for raw blocks 
  * Added _bounds_ option to [ ` top-edge ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-top-edge) and [ ` bottom-edge ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-bottom-edge) arguments of text function for tight bounding boxes 
  * Removed nonsensical top- and bottom-edge options, e.g. _ascender_ for the bottom edge **(Breaking change)**
  * Added [ ` script ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-script) argument to text function 
  * Added [ ` alternative ` ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/#parameters-alternative) argument to smart quote function 
  * Added basic i18n for Japanese 
  * Added hyphenation support for ` nb ` and ` nn ` language codes in addition to ` no `
  * Fixed positioning of [ placed elements ](/docs/reference/layout/place/) in containers 
  * Fixed overflowing containers due to optimized line breaks 

##  Export

  * Greatly improved export of SVG images to PDF. Many thanks to [ @LaurenzV ](https://github.com/LaurenzV) for their work on this. 
  * Added support for the alpha channel of RGBA colors in PDF export 
  * Fixed a bug with PPI (pixels per inch) for PNG export 

##  Math

  * Improved layout of primes (e.g. in ` $  a  '  _  1  $  ` ) 
  * Improved display of multi-primes (e.g. in ` $  a  '  '  $  ` ) 
  * Improved layout of [ roots ](/docs/reference/math/roots/#functions-root)
  * Changed relations to show attachments as [ limits ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-limits) by default (e.g. in ` $  a  -> ^  x b  $  ` ) 
  * Large operators and delimiters are now always vertically centered 
  * [ Boxes ](/docs/reference/layout/box/) in equations now sit on the baseline instead of being vertically centered by default. Notably, this does not affect [ blocks ](/docs/reference/layout/block/) because they are not inline elements. 
  * Added support for [ weak spacing ](/docs/reference/layout/h/#parameters-weak)
  * Added support for OpenType character variants 
  * Added support for customizing the [ math class ](/docs/reference/math/class/) of content 
  * Fixed spacing around ` . ` , ` \/ ` , and ` ... `
  * Fixed spacing between closing delimiters and large operators 
  * Fixed a bug with math font weight selection 
  * Symbols and Operators **(Breaking changes)**
    * Added ` id ` , ` im ` , and ` tr ` text [ operators ](/docs/reference/math/op/)
    * Renamed ` ident ` to ` equiv ` with alias ` eq.triple ` and removed ` ident.strict ` in favor of ` eq.quad `
    * Renamed ` ast.sq ` to ` ast.square ` and ` integral.sq ` to ` integral.square `
    * Renamed ` .eqq ` modifier to ` .equiv ` (and ` .neqq ` to ` .nequiv ` ) for ` tilde ` , ` gt ` , ` lt ` , ` prec ` , and ` succ `
    * Added ` emptyset ` as alias for ` nothing `
    * Added ` lt.curly ` and ` gt.curly ` as aliases for ` prec ` and ` succ `
    * Added ` aleph ` , ` beth ` , and ` gimmel ` as alias for ` alef ` , ` bet ` , and ` gimel `

##  Scripting

  * Fields 
    * Added ` abs ` and ` em ` field to [ lengths ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)
    * Added ` ratio ` and ` length ` field to [ relative lengths ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)
    * Added ` x ` and ` y ` field to [ 2d alignments ](/docs/reference/layout/align/#parameters-alignment)
    * Added ` paint ` , ` thickness ` , ` cap ` , ` join ` , ` dash ` , and ` miter-limit ` field to [ strokes ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/)
  * Accessor and utility methods 
    * Added [ ` dedup ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-dedup) method to arrays 
    * Added ` pt ` , ` mm ` , ` cm ` , and ` inches ` method to [ lengths ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)
    * Added ` deg ` and ` rad ` method to [ angles ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)
    * Added ` kind ` , ` hex ` , ` rgba ` , ` cmyk ` , and ` luma ` method to [ colors ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
    * Added ` axis ` , ` start ` , ` end ` , and ` inv ` method to [ directions ](/docs/reference/layout/stack/#parameters-dir)
    * Added ` axis ` and ` inv ` method to [ alignments ](/docs/reference/layout/align/#parameters-alignment)
    * Added ` inv ` method to [ 2d alignments ](/docs/reference/layout/align/#parameters-alignment)
    * Added ` start ` argument to [ ` enumerate ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-enumerate) method on arrays 
  * Added [ ` color.mix ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-mix) function 
  * Added ` mode ` and ` scope ` arguments to [ ` eval ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/eval/ "`eval`") function 
  * Added [ ` bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "`bytes`") type for holding large byte buffers 
    * Added [ ` encoding ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/#parameters-encoding) argument to read function to read a file as bytes instead of a string 
    * Added [ ` image.decode ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/#definitions-decode) function for decoding an image directly from a string or bytes 
    * Added [ ` bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "`bytes`") function for converting a string or an array of integers to bytes 
    * Added [ ` array ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "`array`") function for converting bytes to an array of integers 
    * Added support for converting bytes to a string with the [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/ "`str`") function 

##  Tooling and Diagnostics

  * Added support for compiler warnings 
  * Added warning when compilation does not converge within five attempts due to intense use of introspection features 
  * Added warnings for empty emphasis ( ` __ ` and ` ** ` ) 
  * Improved error message for invalid field assignments 
  * Improved error message after single ` # `
  * Improved error message when a keyword is used where an identifier is expected 
  * Fixed parameter autocompletion for functions that are in modules 
  * Import autocompletion now only shows the latest package version until a colon is typed 
  * Fixed autocompletion for dictionary key containing a space 
  * Fixed autocompletion for ` for ` loops 

##  Command line interface

  * Added ` typst query ` subcommand to execute a [ query ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/#command-line-queries) on the command line 
  * The ` --root ` and ` --font-paths ` arguments cannot appear in front of the command anymore **(Breaking change)**
  * Local and cached packages are now stored in directories of the form ` {namespace}/{name}/{version} ` instead of ` {namespace}/{name}-{version} ` **(Breaking change)**
  * Now prioritizes explicitly given fonts (via ` --font-paths ` ) over system and embedded fonts when both exist 
  * Fixed ` typst watch ` not working with some text editors 
  * Fixed displayed compilation time (now includes export) 

##  Miscellaneous Improvements

  * Added [ ` bookmarked ` ](/docs/reference/model/heading/#parameters-bookmarked) argument to heading to control whether a heading becomes part of the PDF outline 
  * Added [ ` caption-pos ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#definitions-caption-position) argument to control the position of a figure's caption 
  * Added [ ` metadata ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/metadata/ "`metadata`") function for exposing an arbitrary value to the introspection system 
  * Fixed that a [ ` state ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/ "`state`") was identified by the pair ` (key, init) ` instead of just its ` key `
  * Improved indent logic of [ enumerations ](/docs/reference/model/enum/) . Instead of requiring at least as much indent as the end of the marker, they now require only one more space indent than the start of the marker. As a result, even long markers like ` 12. ` work with just 2 spaces of indent. 
  * Fixed bug with indent logic of [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") blocks 
  * Fixed a parsing bug with dictionaries 

##  Development

  * Extracted parser and syntax tree into ` typst-syntax ` crate 
  * The ` World::today ` implementation of Typst dependents may need fixing if they have the same [ bug ](https://github.com/typst/typst/issues/1842) that the CLI world had 

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of damaxwell](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/918465?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/damaxwell)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of bluebear94](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2975203?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/bluebear94)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Beiri22](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8210233?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Beiri22)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dherse](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9665250?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dherse)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Mafii](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/10061519?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Mafii)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of adriandelgado](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11708972?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/adriandelgado)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lolstork](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/137357423?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lolstork)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of AlistairKeiller](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43255248?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/AlistairKeiller)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of DVDTSB](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/66365801?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/DVDTSB)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Enter-tainer](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25521218?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Enter-tainer)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of EpicEricEE](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7191192?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/EpicEricEE)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Liamolucko](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43807659?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Liamolucko)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LingMan](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18645382?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LingMan)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Myriad-Dreamin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35292584?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Myriad-Dreamin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of StrangeGirlMurph](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/62220780?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/StrangeGirlMurph)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of T0mstone](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/39707032?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/T0mstone)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of TheLukeGuy](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64972126?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/TheLukeGuy)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of antonWetzel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/59712243?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/antonWetzel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of epbuennig](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/103939966?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/epbuennig)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kg583](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/41345727?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kg583)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lynn](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/16232127?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lynn)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mattfbacon](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/58113890?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mattfbacon)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of mavaddat](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/5055400?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/mavaddat)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of neunenak](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/311545?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/neunenak)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of pineapplehunter](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/8869894?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/pineapplehunter)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of raphCode](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15750438?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/raphCode)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sitandr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/60141933?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sitandr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sudormrfbin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/23398472?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sudormrfbin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of tretre91](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/63788850?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/tretre91)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.8.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.8.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.6.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.6.0/)



# **docs/changelog/0.6.0.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ 0.6.0 ](/docs/changelog/0.6.0/)

#  Version 0.6.0 (June 30, 2023)

##  Package Management

  * Typst now has built-in [ package management ](/docs/reference/scripting/#packages)
  * You can import [ published ](https://typst.app/universe/) community packages or create and use [ system-local ](https://github.com/typst/packages#local-packages) ones 
  * Published packages are also supported in the web app 

##  Math

  * Added support for optical size variants of glyphs in math mode 
  * Added argument to enable [ ` limits ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-limits) conditionally depending on whether the equation is set in [ ` display ` ](/docs/reference/math/sizes/#functions-display) or [ ` inline ` ](/docs/reference/math/sizes/#functions-inline) style 
  * Added ` gt.eq.slant ` and ` lt.eq.slant ` symbols 
  * Increased precedence of factorials in math mode ( ` $  1  /  n!  $  ` works correctly now) 
  * Improved [ underlines ](/docs/reference/math/underover/#functions-underline) and [ overlines ](/docs/reference/math/underover/#functions-overline) in math mode 
  * Fixed usage of [ ` limits ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-limits) function in show rules 
  * Fixed bugs with line breaks in equations 

##  Text and Layout

  * Added support for alternating page [ margins ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-margin) with the ` inside ` and ` outside ` keys 
  * Added support for specifying the page [ ` binding ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-binding)
  * Added [ ` to ` ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/#parameters-to) argument to pagebreak function to skip to the next even or odd page 
  * Added basic i18n for a few more languages (TR, SQ, TL) 
  * Fixed bug with missing table row at page break 
  * Fixed bug with [ underlines ](/docs/reference/text/underline/)
  * Fixed bug superfluous table lines 
  * Fixed smart quotes after line breaks 
  * Fixed a crash related to text layout 

##  Command line interface

  * **Breaking change:** Added requirement for ` --root ` / ` TYPST_ROOT ` directory to contain the input file because it designates the _project_ root. Existing setups that use ` TYPST_ROOT ` to emulate package management should switch to [ local packages ](https://github.com/typst/packages#local-packages)
  * **Breaking change:** Now denies file access outside of the project root 
  * Added support for local packages and on-demand package download 
  * Now watches all relevant files, within the root and all packages 
  * Now displays compilation time 

##  Miscellaneous Improvements

  * Added [ ` outline.entry ` ](/docs/reference/model/outline/#definitions-entry) to customize outline entries with show rules 
  * Added some hints for error messages 
  * Added some missing syntaxes for [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") highlighting 
  * Improved rendering of rotated images in PNG export and web app 
  * Made [ footnotes ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/) reusable and referenceable 
  * Fixed bug with citations and bibliographies in [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`")
  * Fixed inconsistent tense in documentation 

##  Development

  * Added [ contribution guide ](https://github.com/typst/typst/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
  * Reworked ` World ` interface to accommodate for package management and make it a bit simpler to implement _(Breaking change for implementors)_

##  Contributors

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of bluebear94](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2975203?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/bluebear94)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of figsoda](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40620903?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/figsoda)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of sitandr](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/60141933?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/sitandr)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of MDLC01](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/57839069?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/MDLC01)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Mafii](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/10061519?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Mafii)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of azerupi](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7647338?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/azerupi)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of damaxwell](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/918465?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/damaxwell)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of AndyBarcia](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40731413?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/AndyBarcia)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of DVDTSB](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/66365801?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/DVDTSB)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Jollywatt](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/24970860?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Jollywatt)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Luis-Licea](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/48164786?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Luis-Licea)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Myriad-Dreamin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35292584?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Myriad-Dreamin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of PgBiel](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9021226?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/PgBiel)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of SUPERCILEX](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/9490724?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/SUPERCILEX)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of TomBinford](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/28466971?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/TomBinford)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of abdulmelikbekmez](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/61517310?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/abdulmelikbekmez)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of alerque](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/173595?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/alerque)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of chicoferreira](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/36338391?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/chicoferreira)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jskherman](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/68434444?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jskherman)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of lucifer1004](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/13583761?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/lucifer1004)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of raphCode](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15750438?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/raphCode)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of thehydrogen](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/34059898?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/thehydrogen)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of zach-capalbo](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1325621?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/zach-capalbo)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.7.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.7.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.5.0
Next page  ](/docs/changelog/0.5.0/)



# **docs/changelog/earlier.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Changelog ](/docs/changelog/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Earlier ](/docs/changelog/earlier/)

#  Changes in early, unversioned Typst

##  March 28, 2023

  * **Breaking changes:**

    * Enumerations now require a space after their marker, that is, ` 1.ok ` must now be written as ` 1.  ok `
    * Changed default style for [ term lists ](/docs/reference/model/terms/) : Does not include a colon anymore and has a bit more indent 
  * Command line interface 

    * Added ` --font-path ` argument for CLI 
    * Embedded default fonts in CLI binary 
    * Fixed build of CLI if ` git ` is not installed 
  * Miscellaneous improvements 

    * Added support for disabling [ matrix ](/docs/reference/math/mat/) and [ vector ](/docs/reference/math/vec/) delimiters. Generally with ` #  set  math  .  mat  (  delim  :  none  )  ` or one-off with ` $  mat  (  delim  :  #  none  ,  1  ,  2  ;  3  ,  4  )  $  ` . 
    * Added [ ` separator ` ](/docs/reference/model/terms/#parameters-separator) argument to term lists 
    * Added [ ` round ` ](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-round) function for equations 
    * Numberings now allow zeros. To reset a counter, you can write ` #  counter  (  ..  )  .  update  (  0  )  `
    * Added documentation for ` page  (  )  ` and ` position  (  )  ` methods on [ ` location ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/ "`location`") type 
    * Added symbols for double, triple, and quadruple dot accent 
    * Added smart quotes for Norwegian BokmÃ¥l 
    * Added Nix flake 
    * Fixed bibliography ordering in IEEE style 
    * Fixed parsing of decimals in math: ` $  1.2  /  3.4  $  `
    * Fixed parsing of unbalanced delimiters in fractions: ` $  1  /  (2 (x)  $  `
    * Fixed unexpected parsing of numbers as enumerations, e.g. in ` 1.2 `
    * Fixed combination of page fill and header 
    * Fixed compiler crash if [ ` repeat ` ](/docs/reference/layout/repeat/ "`repeat`") is used in page with automatic width 
    * Fixed [ matrices ](/docs/reference/math/mat/) with explicit delimiter 
    * Fixed [ ` indent ` ](/docs/reference/model/terms/#parameters-indent) property of term lists 
    * Numerous documentation fixes 
    * Links in bibliographies are now affected by link styling 
    * Fixed hovering over comments in web app 

Thanks to everyone who contributed to this release!

  * [ ![GitHub avatar of figsoda](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40620903?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/figsoda)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of loewenheim](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7622248?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/loewenheim)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of 7sDream](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7822577?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/7sDream)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of AlexanderEkdahl](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1409734?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/AlexanderEkdahl)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of C284974](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/67071431?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/C284974)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Dragoncraft89](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11162205?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Dragoncraft89)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Easyoakland](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/97992568?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Easyoakland)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of KiruyaMomochi](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/65301509?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/KiruyaMomochi)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of LaurenzV](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/47084093?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/LaurenzV)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of ModProg](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11978847?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/ModProg)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of RafDevX](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/56204853?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/RafDevX)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of Tom-stack3](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/76645845?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/Tom-stack3)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of arctic-penguin](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/103587359?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/arctic-penguin)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of barvirm](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/15948420?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/barvirm)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dreamlax](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4708805?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dreamlax)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of dvdvgt](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40773635?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/dvdvgt)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of flxo](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/129436?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/flxo)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jakobrs](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/10761079?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jakobrs)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of jdm204](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/34479575?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/jdm204)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of kianmeng](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/134518?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/kianmeng)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of liamsanft](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/38260698?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/liamsanft)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of oskgo](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/92018610?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/oskgo)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of rpitasky](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/111201305?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/rpitasky)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of thecaralice](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43097806?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/thecaralice)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of user202729](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25191436?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/user202729)
  * [ ![GitHub avatar of vxpm](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/59714841?s=64&v=4) ](https://github.com/vxpm)

##  March 21, 2023

  * Reference and bibliography management 

    * [ Bibliographies ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/) and [ citations ](/docs/reference/model/cite/) (currently supported styles are APA, Chicago Author Date, IEEE, and MLA) 
    * You can now [ reference ](/docs/reference/model/ref/) sections, figures, formulas, and works from the bibliography with ` @label  `
    * You can make an element referenceable with a label: 
      * ` = Introduction  <intro> `
      * ` $  A =  pi  r  ^  2  $  <area> `
  * Introspection system for interactions between different parts of the document 

    * [ ` counter ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/ "`counter`") function 
      * Access and modify counters for pages, headings, figures, and equations 
      * Define and use your own custom counters 
      * Time travel: Find out what the counter value was or will be at some other point in the document (e.g. when you're building a list of figures, you can determine the value of the figure counter at any given figure). 
      * Counters count in layout order and not in code order 
    * [ ` state ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/ "`state`") function 
      * Manage arbitrary state across your document 
      * Time travel: Find out the value of your state at any position in the document 
      * State is modified in layout order and not in code order 
    * [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") function 
      * Find all occurrences of an element or a label, either in the whole document or before/after some location 
      * Link to elements, find out their position on the pages and access their fields 
      * Example use cases: Custom list of figures or page header with current chapter title 
    * [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`") function 
      * Determines the location of itself in the final layout 
      * Can be accessed to get the ` page ` and ` x ` , ` y ` coordinates 
      * Can be used with counters and state to find out their values at that location 
      * Can be used with queries to find elements before or after its location 
  * New [ ` measure ` ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/ "`measure`") function 

    * Measure the layouted size of elements 
    * To be used in combination with the new [ ` style ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/style/ "`style`") function that lets you generate different content based on the style context something is inserted into (because that affects the measured size of content) 
  * Exposed content representation 

    * Content is not opaque anymore 
    * Content can be compared for equality 
    * The tree of content elements can be traversed with code 
    * Can be observed in hover tooltips or with [ ` repr ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/ "`repr`")
    * New [ methods ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) on content: ` func ` , ` has ` , ` at ` , and ` location `
    * All optional fields on elements are now settable 
    * More uniform field names ( ` heading.title ` becomes ` heading.body ` , ` list.items ` becomes ` list.children ` , and a few more changes) 
  * Further improvements 

    * Added [ ` figure ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/ "`figure`") function 
    * Added [ ` numbering ` ](/docs/reference/math/equation/#parameters-numbering) parameter on equation function 
    * Added [ ` numbering ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-numbering) and [ ` number-align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-number-align) parameters on page function 
    * The page function's [ ` header ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-header) and [ ` footer ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-footer) parameters do not take functions anymore. If you want to customize them based on the page number, use the new [ ` numbering ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-numbering) parameter or [ ` counter ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/ "`counter`") function instead. 
    * Added [ ` footer-descent ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-footer-descent) and [ ` header-ascent ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-header-ascent) parameters 
    * Better default alignment in header and footer 
    * Fixed Arabic vowel placement 
    * Fixed PDF font embedding issues 
    * Renamed ` math.formula ` to [ ` math.equation ` ](/docs/reference/math/equation/)
    * Font family must be a named argument now: ` #  set  text  (  font  :  ".."  )  `
    * Added support for [ hanging indent ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-hanging-indent)
    * Renamed paragraph ` indent ` to [ ` first-line-indent ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-first-line-indent)
    * More accurate [ logarithm ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-log) when base is ` 2 ` or ` 10 `
    * Improved some error messages 
    * Fixed layout of [ ` terms ` ](/docs/reference/model/terms/ "`terms`") list 
  * Web app improvements 

    * Added template gallery 
    * Added buttons to insert headings, equations, raw blocks, and references 
    * Jump to the source of something by clicking on it in the preview panel (works for text, equations, images, and more) 
    * You can now upload your own fonts and use them in your project 
    * Hover debugging and autocompletion now takes multiple files into account and works in show rules 
    * Hover tooltips now automatically collapse multiple consecutive equal values 
    * The preview now automatically scrolls to the right place when you type 
    * Links are now clickable in the preview area 
    * Toolbar, preview, and editor can now all be hidden 
    * Added autocompletion for raw block language tags 
    * Added autocompletion in SVG files 
    * New back button instead of four-dots button 
    * Lots of bug fixes 

##  February 25, 2023

  * Font changes 
    * New default font: Linux Libertine 
    * New default font for raw blocks: DejaVu Sans Mono 
    * New default font for math: Book weight of New Computer Modern Math 
    * Lots of new math fonts available 
    * Removed Latin Modern fonts in favor of New Computer Modern family 
    * Removed unnecessary smallcaps fonts which are already accessible through the corresponding main font and the [ ` smallcaps ` ](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/ "`smallcaps`") function 
  * Improved default spacing for headings 
  * Added [ ` panic ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/panic/ "`panic`") function 
  * Added [ ` clusters ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-clusters) and [ ` codepoints ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-codepoints) methods for strings 
  * Support for multiple authors in [ ` set document ` ](/docs/reference/model/document/#parameters-author)
  * Fixed crash when string is accessed at a position that is not a char boundary 
  * Fixed semicolon parsing in ` #  var  ; `
  * Fixed incremental parsing when inserting backslash at end of ` #  "abc"  `
  * Fixed names of a few font families (including Noto Sans Symbols and New Computer Modern families) 
  * Fixed autocompletion for font families 
  * Improved incremental compilation for user-defined functions 

##  February 15, 2023

  * [ Box ](/docs/reference/layout/box/) and [ block ](/docs/reference/layout/block/ "block") have gained ` fill ` , ` stroke ` , ` radius ` , and ` inset ` properties 
  * Blocks may now be explicitly sized, fixed-height blocks can still break across pages 
  * Blocks can now be configured to be [ ` breakable ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-breakable) or not 
  * [ Numbering style ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#parameters-numbering) can now be configured for nested enums 
  * [ Markers ](/docs/reference/model/list/#parameters-marker) can now be configured for nested lists 
  * The [ ` eval ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/eval/ "`eval`") function now expects code instead of markup and returns an arbitrary value. Markup can still be evaluated by surrounding the string with brackets. 
  * PDFs generated by Typst now contain XMP metadata 
  * Link boxes are now disabled in PDF output 
  * Tables don't produce small empty cells before a pagebreak anymore 
  * Fixed raw block highlighting bug 

##  February 12, 2023

  * Shapes, images, and transformations (move/rotate/scale/repeat) are now block-level. To integrate them into a paragraph, use a [ ` box ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`") as with other elements. 
  * A colon is now required in an "everything" show rule: Write ` show  :  it  => .. ` instead of ` show  it  => .. ` . This prevents intermediate states that ruin your whole document. 
  * Non-math content like a shape or table in a math formula is now centered vertically 
  * Support for widow and orphan prevention within containers 
  * Support for [ RTL ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-dir) in lists, grids, and tables 
  * Support for explicit ` auto  ` sizing for boxes and shapes 
  * Support for fractional (i.e. ` 1fr  ` ) widths for boxes 
  * Fixed bug where columns jump to next page 
  * Fixed bug where list items have no leading 
  * Fixed relative sizing in lists, squares and grid auto columns 
  * Fixed relative displacement in [ ` place ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/ "`place`") function 
  * Fixed that lines don't have a size 
  * Fixed bug where ` set  document  (  ..  )  ` complains about being after content 
  * Fixed parsing of ` not  in  ` operation 
  * Fixed hover tooltips in math 
  * Fixed bug where a heading show rule may not contain a pagebreak when an outline is present 
  * Added [ ` baseline ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-baseline) property on [ ` box ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`")
  * Added [ ` tg ` ](/docs/reference/math/op/) and [ ` ctg ` ](/docs/reference/math/op/) operators in math 
  * Added delimiter setting for [ ` cases ` ](/docs/reference/math/cases/) function 
  * Parentheses are now included when accepting a function autocompletion 

##  February 2, 2023

  * Merged text and math symbols, renamed a few symbols (including ` infty ` to ` infinity ` with the alias ` oo ` ) 
  * Fixed missing italic mappings 
  * Math italics correction is now applied properly 
  * Parentheses now scale in ` $  zeta  (  x  /  2  )  $  `
  * Fixed placement of large root index 
  * Fixed spacing in ` $  abs  (  -  x  )  $  `
  * Fixed inconsistency between text and identifiers in math 
  * Accents are now ignored when positioning superscripts 
  * Fixed vertical alignment in matrices 
  * Fixed ` text ` set rule in ` raw ` show rule 
  * Heading and list markers now parse consistently 
  * Allow arbitrary math directly in content 

##  January 30, 2023

[ Go to the announcement blog post. ](https://typst.app/blog/2023/january-
update)

  * New expression syntax in markup/math 
    * Blocks cannot be directly embedded in markup anymore 
    * Like other expressions, they now require a leading hash 
    * More expressions available with hash, including literals ( ` #  "string"  ` ) as well as field access and method call without space: ` #  emoji  .  face  `
  * New import syntax 
    * ` #  import  "module.typ"  ` creates binding named ` module `
    * ` #  import  "module.typ"  :  a  ,  b ` or ` #  import  "module.typ"  :  *  ` to import items 
    * ` #  import  emoji  :  face  ,  turtle ` to import from already bound module 
  * New symbol handling 
    * Removed symbol notation 
    * Symbols are now in modules: ` sym ` , ` emoji ` , and ` math `
    * Math module also reexports all of ` sym `
    * Modified through field access, still order-independent 
    * Unknown modifiers are not allowed anymore 
    * Support for custom symbol definitions with ` symbol ` function 
    * Symbols now listed in documentation 
  * New ` math ` module 
    * Contains all math-related functions 
    * Variables and function calls directly in math (without hash) access this module instead of the global scope, but can also access local variables 
    * Can be explicitly used in code, e.g. ` #  set  math  .  vec  (  delim  :  "["  )  `
  * Delimiter matching in math 
    * Any opening delimiters matches any closing one 
    * When matched, they automatically scale 
    * To prevent scaling, escape them 
    * To forcibly match two delimiters, use ` lr ` function 
    * Line breaks may occur between matched delimiters 
    * Delimiters may also be unbalanced 
    * You can also use the ` lr ` function to scale the brackets (or just one bracket) to a specific size manually 
  * Multi-line math with alignment 
    * The ` \ ` character inserts a line break 
    * The ` & ` character defines an alignment point 
    * Alignment points also work for underbraces, vectors, cases, and matrices 
    * Multiple alignment points are supported 
  * More capable math function calls 
    * Function calls directly in math can now take code expressions with hash 
    * They can now also take named arguments 
    * Within math function calls, semicolons turn preceding arguments to arrays to support matrices: ` $  mat  (  1  ,  2  ;  3  ,  4  )  $  `
  * Arbitrary content in math 
    * Text, images, and other arbitrary content can now be embedded in math 
    * Math now also supports font fallback to support e.g. CJK and emoji 
  * More math features 
    * New text operators: ` op ` function, ` lim ` , ` max ` , etc. 
    * New matrix function: ` mat `
    * New n-ary roots with ` root ` function: ` $  root  (  3  ,  x  )  $  `
    * New under- and overbraces, -brackets, and -lines 
    * New ` abs ` and ` norm ` functions 
    * New shorthands: ` [| ` , ` |] ` , and ` || `
    * New ` attach ` function, overridable attachments with ` script ` and ` limit `
    * Manual spacing in math, with ` h ` , ` thin ` , ` med ` , ` thick ` and ` quad `
    * Symbols and other content may now be used like a function, e.g. ` $  zeta  (  x  )  $  `
    * Added Fira Math font, removed Noto Sans Math font 
    * Support for alternative math fonts through ` #  show  math  .  formula  :  set  text  (  "Fira Math"  )  `
  * More library improvements 
    * New ` calc ` module, ` abs ` , ` min ` , ` max ` , ` even ` , ` odd ` and ` mod ` moved there 
    * New ` message ` argument on ` assert ` function 
    * The ` pairs ` method on dictionaries now returns an array of length-2 arrays instead of taking a closure 
    * The method call ` dict  .  at  (  "key"  )  ` now always fails if ` "key" ` doesn't exist Previously, it was allowed in assignments. Alternatives are ` dict  .  key  =  x ` and ` dict  .  insert  (  "key"  ,  x  )  ` . 
  * Smarter editor functionality 
    * Autocompletion for local variables 
    * Autocompletion for methods available on a value 
    * Autocompletion for symbols and modules 
    * Autocompletion for imports 
    * Hover over an identifier to see its value(s) 
  * Further editor improvements 
    * New Font menu with previews 
    * Single projects may now be shared with share links 
    * New dashboard experience if projects are shared with you 
    * Keyboard Shortcuts are now listed in the menus and there are more of them 
    * New Offline indicator 
    * Tooltips for all buttons 
    * Improved account protection 
    * Moved Status indicator into the error list button 
  * Further fixes 
    * Multiple bug fixes for incremental parser 
    * Fixed closure parameter capturing 
    * Fixed tons of math bugs 
    * Bugfixes for performance, file management, editing reliability 
    * Added redirection to the page originally navigated to after signin 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) 0.1.0  Previous page
](/docs/changelog/0.1.0/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Roadmap
Next page  ](/docs/roadmap/)



# **docs/guides/page-setup-guide.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Guides ](/docs/guides/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Page setup guide ](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/)

#  Page setup guide

Your page setup is a big part of the first impression your document gives.
Line lengths, margins, and columns influence [ appearance
](https://practicaltypography.com/page-margins.html) and [ legibility
](https://designregression.com/article/line-length-revisited-following-the-
research) while the right headers and footers will help your reader easily
navigate your document. This guide will help you to customize pages, margins,
headers, footers, and page numbers so that they are the right fit for your
content and you can get started with writing.

In Typst, each page has a width, a height, and margins on all four sides. The
top and bottom margins may contain a header and footer. The set rule of the [
` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) element is where you control all of
the page setup. If you make changes with this set rule, Typst will ensure that
there is a new and conforming empty page afterward, so it may insert a page
break. Therefore, it is best to specify your [ ` page `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule at the start of your document or in
your template.

    
    
    #set rect(
      width: 100%,
      height: 100%,
      inset: 4pt,
    )
    
    #set page(
      paper: "iso-b7",
      header: rect(fill: aqua)[Header],
      footer: rect(fill: aqua)[Footer],
      number-align: center,
    )
    
    #rect(fill: aqua.lighten(40%))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/f-lyLMO5vdXuAMoj28s3AgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example visualizes the dimensions for page content, headers, and footers.
The page content is the page size (ISO B7) minus each side's default margin.
In the top and the bottom margin, there are stroked rectangles visualizing the
header and footer. They do not touch the main content, instead, they are
offset by 30% of the respective margin. You can control this offset by
specifying the [ ` header-ascent ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-
header-ascent) and [ ` footer-descent `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-footer-descent) arguments.

Below, the guide will go more into detail on how to accomplish common page
setup requirements with examples.

##  Customize page size and margins

Typst's default page size is A4 paper. Depending on your region and your use
case, you will want to change this. You can do this by using the [ ` page `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule and passing it a string argument to
use a common page size. Options include the complete ISO 216 series (e.g. `
"iso-a4" ` , ` "iso-c2" ` ), customary US formats like ` "us-legal" ` or `
"us-letter" ` , and more. Check out the reference for the [ page's paper
argument ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-paper) to learn about all
available options.

    
    
    #set page("us-letter")
    
    This page likes freedom.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Qkb9fYb5SMfDaJ63aYycTwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If you need to customize your page size to some dimensions, you can specify
the named arguments [ ` width ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-
width) and [ ` height ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-height)
instead.

    
    
    #set page(width: 12cm, height: 12cm)
    
    This page is a square.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/RltrP5jjKi_qENhy9B-HyQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  Change the page's margins

Margins are a vital ingredient for good typography: [ Typographers consider
lines that fit between 45 and 75 characters best length for legibility
](http://webtypography.net/2.1.2) and your margins and  columns  help define
line widths. By default, Typst will create margins proportional to the page
size of your document. To set custom margins, you will use the [ ` margin `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-margin) argument in the [ ` page `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule.

The ` margin ` argument will accept a length if you want to set all margins to
the same width. However, you often want to set different margins on each side.
To do this, you can pass a dictionary:

    
    
    #set page(margin: (
      top: 3cm,
      bottom: 2cm,
      x: 1.5cm,
    ))
    
    #lorem(100)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yJb2DmVYA18DCHWDRA50QQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The page margin dictionary can have keys for each side ( ` top ` , ` bottom `
, ` left ` , ` right ` ), but you can also control left and right together by
setting the ` x ` key of the margin dictionary, like in the example. Likewise,
the top and bottom margins can be adjusted together by setting the ` y ` key.

If you do not specify margins for all sides in the margin dictionary, the old
margins will remain in effect for the unset sides. To prevent this and set all
remaining margins to a common size, you can use the ` rest ` key. For example,
` #  set  page  (  margin  :  (  left  :  1.5in  ,  rest  :  1in  )  )  ` will
set the left margin to 1.5 inches and the remaining margins to one inch.

###  Different margins on alternating pages

Sometimes, you'll need to alternate horizontal margins for even and odd pages,
for example, to have more room towards the spine of a book than on the
outsides of its pages. Typst keeps track of whether a page is to the left or
right of the binding. You can use this information and set the ` inside ` or `
outside ` keys of the margin dictionary. The ` inside ` margin points towards
the spine, and the ` outside ` margin points towards the edge of the bound
book.

    
    
    #set page(margin: (inside: 2.5cm, outside: 2cm, y: 1.75cm))
    

Typst will assume that documents written in Left-to-Right scripts are bound on
the left while books written in Right-to-Left scripts are bound on the right.
However, you will need to change this in some cases: If your first page is
output by a different app, the binding is reversed from Typst's perspective.
Also, some books, like English-language Mangas are customarily bound on the
right, despite English using Left-to-Right script. To change the binding side
and explicitly set where the ` inside ` and ` outside ` are, set the [ `
binding ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-binding) argument in the [
` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule.

    
    
    // Produce a book bound on the right,
    // even though it is set in Spanish.
    #set text(lang: "es")
    #set page(binding: right)
    

If ` binding ` is ` left ` , ` inside ` margins will be on the left on odd
pages, and vice versa.

##  Add headers and footers

Headers and footers are inserted in the top and bottom margins of every page.
You can add custom headers and footers or just insert a page number.

In case you need more than just a page number, the best way to insert a header
and a footer are the [ ` header ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-
header) and [ ` footer ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-footer)
arguments of the [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule. You can
pass any content as their values:

    
    
    #set page(header: [
      _Lisa Strassner's Thesis_
      #h(1fr)
      National Academy of Sciences
    ])
    
    #lorem(150)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8IFKrlz4CTSpYgWgKq02tAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Headers are bottom-aligned by default so that they do not collide with the top
edge of the page. You can change this by wrapping your header in the [ ` align
` ](/docs/reference/layout/align/) function.

###  Different header and footer on specific pages

You'll need different headers and footers on some pages. For example, you may
not want a header and footer on the title page. The example below shows how to
conditionally remove the header on the first page:

    
    
    #set page(header: context {
      if counter(page).get().first() > 1 [
        _Lisa Strassner's Thesis_
        #h(1fr)
        National Academy of Sciences
      ]
    })
    
    #lorem(150)
    

This example may look intimidating, but let's break it down: By using the `
context  ` keyword, we are telling Typst that the header depends on where we
are in the document. We then ask Typst if the page [ counter
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/ "counter") is larger than one at our
(context-dependent) current position. The page counter starts at one, so we
are skipping the header on a single page. Counters may have multiple levels.
This feature is used for items like headings, but the page counter will always
have a single level, so we can just look at the first one.

You can, of course, add an ` else ` to this example to add a different header
to the first page instead.

###  Adapt headers and footers on pages with specific elements

The technique described in the previous section can be adapted to perform more
advanced tasks using Typst's labels. For example, pages with big tables could
omit their headers to help keep clutter down. We will mark our tables with a `
<big-table> ` [ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "label") and use
the [ query system ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/) to find out if such
a label exists on the current page:

    
    
    #set page(header: context {
      let page-counter =
      let matches = query(<big-table>)
      let current = counter(page).get()
      let has-table = matches.any(m =>
        counter(page).at(m.location()) == current
      )
    
      if not has-table [
        _Lisa Strassner's Thesis_
        #h(1fr)
        National Academy of Sciences
      ]
    }))
    
    #lorem(100)
    #pagebreak()
    
    #table(
      columns: 2 * (1fr,),
      [A], [B],
      [C], [D],
    ) <big-table>
    

Here, we query for all instances of the ` <big-table> ` label. We then check
that none of the tables are on the page at our current position. If so, we
print the header. This example also uses variables to be more concise. Just as
above, you could add an ` else ` to add another header instead of deleting it.

##  Add and customize page numbers

Page numbers help readers keep track of and reference your document more
easily. The simplest way to insert page numbers is the [ ` numbering `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-numbering) argument of the [ ` page
` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule. You can pass a [ _numbering
pattern_ ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/#parameters-numbering) string that
shows how you want your pages to be numbered.

    
    
    #set page(numbering: "1")
    
    This is a numbered page.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tItTkMk79gxARzJosrxVsgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Above, you can check out the simplest conceivable example. It adds a single
Arabic page number at the center of the footer. You can specify other
characters than ` "1" ` to get other numerals. For example, ` "i" ` will yield
lowercase Roman numerals. Any character that is not interpreted as a number
will be output as-is. For example, put dashes around your page number by
typing this:

    
    
    #set page(numbering: "â 1 â")
    
    This is a â numbered â page.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1_R2fSOS46hX8DevWO3SHwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can add the total number of pages by entering a second number character in
the string.

    
    
    #set page(numbering: "1 of 1")
    
    This is one of many numbered pages.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/y7IZgFjQvtyaq__YsS98MAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Go to the [ ` numbering ` function reference
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/#parameters-numbering) to learn more about
the arguments you can pass here.

In case you need to right- or left-align the page number, use the [ ` number-
align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-number-align) argument of
the [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule. Alternating alignment
between even and odd pages is not currently supported using this property. To
do this, you'll need to specify a custom footer with your footnote and query
the page counter as described in the section on conditionally omitting headers
and footers.

###  Custom footer with page numbers

Sometimes, you need to add other content than a page number to your footer.
However, once a footer is specified, the [ ` numbering `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-numbering) argument of the [ ` page
` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) set rule is ignored. This section shows you
how to add a custom footer with page numbers and more.

    
    
    #set page(footer: context [
      *American Society of Proceedings*
      #h(1fr)
      #counter(page).display(
        "1/1",
        both: true,
      )
    ])
    
    This page has a custom footer.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/pa4FfkSAmZ8SbHMJhFhITAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

First, we add some strongly emphasized text on the left and add free space to
fill the line. Then, we call ` counter(page) ` to retrieve the page counter
and use its ` display ` function to show its current value. We also set ` both
` to ` true  ` so that our numbering pattern applies to the current _and_
final page number.

We can also get more creative with the page number. For example, let's insert
a circle for each page.

    
    
    #set page(footer: context [
      *Fun Typography Club*
      #h(1fr)
      #let (num,) = counter(page).get()
      #let circles = num * (
        box(circle(
          radius: 2pt,
          fill: navy,
        )),
      )
      #box(
        inset: (bottom: 1pt),
        circles.join(h(1pt))
      )
    ])
    
    This page has a custom footer.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Px4MgFDGZh5TfTBwUSS_KAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In this example, we use the number of pages to create an array of [ circles
](/docs/reference/visualize/circle/) . The circles are wrapped in a [ box
](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "box") so they can all appear on the same line
because they are blocks and would otherwise create paragraph breaks. The
length of this [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") depends
on the current page number.

We then insert the circles at the right side of the footer, with 1pt of space
between them. The join method of an array will attempt to [ _join_
](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) the different values of an array into a
single value, interspersed with its argument. In our case, we get a single
content value with circles and spaces between them that we can use with the
align function. Finally, we use another box to ensure that the text and the
circles can share a line and use the [ ` inset ` argument
](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-inset) to raise the circles a bit so
they line up nicely with the text.

###  Reset the page number and skip pages

Do you, at some point in your document, need to reset the page number? Maybe
you want to start with the first page only after the title page. Or maybe you
need to skip a few page numbers because you will insert pages into the final
printed product.

The right way to modify the page number is to manipulate the page [ counter
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/ "counter") . The simplest
manipulation is to set the counter back to 1.

    
    
    #counter(page).update(1)
    

This line will reset the page counter back to one. It should be placed at the
start of a page because it will otherwise create a page break. You can also
update the counter given its previous value by passing a function:

    
    
    #counter(page).update(n => n + 5)
    

In this example, we skip five pages. ` n ` is the current value of the page
counter and ` n + 5 ` is the return value of our function.

In case you need to retrieve the actual page number instead of the value of
the page counter, you can use the [ ` page `
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#definitions-page) method on the
return value of the [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`")
function:

    
    
    #counter(page).update(n => n + 5)
    
    // This returns one even though the
    // page counter was incremented by 5.
    #context here().page()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/09ytRFFbm_ZOLxjka15n_QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also obtain the page numbering pattern from the location returned by `
here ` with the [ ` page-numbering `
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#definitions-page-numbering) method.

##  Add columns

Add columns to your document to fit more on a page while maintaining legible
line lengths. Columns are vertical blocks of text which are separated by some
whitespace. This space is called the gutter.

To lay out your content in columns, just specify the desired number of columns
in a [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-columns) set rule.
To adjust the amount of space between the columns, add a set rule on the [ `
columns ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/columns/) , specifying the `
gutter ` parameter.

    
    
    #set page(columns: 2)
    #set columns(gutter: 12pt)
    
    #lorem(30)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/FgQ5mR5BdbOwdaPvmQss-wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Very commonly, scientific papers have a single-column title and abstract,
while the main body is set in two-columns. To achieve this effect, Typst's [ `
place ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/place/) can temporarily escape the
two-column layout by specifying ` float:  true  ` and ` scope:  "parent"  ` :

    
    
    #set page(columns: 2)
    #set par(justify: true)
    
    #place(
      top + center,
      float: true,
      scope: "parent",
      text(1.4em, weight: "bold")[
        Impacts of Odobenidae
      ],
    )
    
    == About seals in the wild
    #lorem(80)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/rwgbgpUV52923GFV_9bCEQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

_Floating placement_ refers to elements being pushed to the top or bottom of
the column or page, with the remaining content flowing in between. It is also
frequently used for [ figures ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-
placement) .

###  Use columns anywhere in your document

To create columns within a nested layout, e.g. within a rectangle, you can use
the [ ` columns ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/columns/) directly.
However, it really should only be used within nested layouts. At the page-
level, the page set rule is preferrable because it has better interactions
with things like page-level floats, footnotes, and line numbers.

    
    
    #rect(
      width: 6cm,
      height: 3.5cm,
      columns(2, gutter: 12pt)[
        In the dimly lit gas station,
        a solitary taxi stood silently,
        its yellow paint fading with
        time. Its windows were dark,
        its engine idle, and its tires
        rested on the cold concrete.
      ]
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4ald2xJRDpaFMxVXu7aiUQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  Balanced columns

If the columns on the last page of a document differ greatly in length, they
may create a lopsided and unappealing layout. That's why typographers will
often equalize the length of columns on the last page. This effect is called
balancing columns. Typst cannot yet balance columns automatically. However,
you can balance columns manually by placing [ ` #  colbreak  (  )  `
](/docs/reference/layout/colbreak/) at an appropriate spot in your markup,
creating the desired column break manually.

##  One-off modifications

You do not need to override your page settings if you need to insert a single
page with a different setup. For example, you may want to insert a page that's
flipped to landscape to insert a big table or change the margin and columns
for your title page. In this case, you can call [ ` page `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/) as a function with your content as an argument
and the overrides as the other arguments. This will insert enough new pages
with your overridden settings to place your content on them. Typst will revert
to the page settings from the set rule after the call.

    
    
    #page(flipped: true)[
      = Multiplication table
    
      #table(
        columns: 5 * (1fr,),
        ..for x in range(1, 10) {
          for y in range(1, 6) {
            (str(x*y),)
          }
        }
      )
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/U5FByA07ZCcGdizR_XbtEwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Guide for LaTeX users  Previous
page  ](/docs/guides/guide-for-latex-users/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Table guide  Next page  ](/docs/guides/table-guide/)



# **docs/guides/table-guide.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Guides ](/docs/guides/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Table guide ](/docs/guides/table-guide/)

#  Table guide

Tables are a great way to present data to your readers in an easily readable,
compact, and organized manner. They are not only used for numerical values,
but also survey responses, task planning, schedules, and more. Because of this
wide set of possible applications, there is no single best way to lay out a
table. Instead, think about the data you want to highlight, your document's
overarching design, and ultimately how your table can best serve your readers.

Typst can help you with your tables by automating styling, importing data from
other applications, and more! This guide takes you through a few of the most
common questions you may have when adding a table to your document with Typst.
Feel free to skip to the section most relevant to you â we designed this
guide to be read out of order.

If you want to look up a detail of how tables work, you should also [ check
out their reference page ](/docs/reference/model/table/) . And if you are
looking for a table of contents rather than a normal table, the reference page
of the [ ` outline ` function ](/docs/reference/model/outline/) is the right
place to learn more.

##  How to create a basic table?

In order to create a table in Typst, use the [ ` table ` function
](/docs/reference/model/table/) . For a basic table, you need to tell the
table function two things:

  * The number of columns 
  * The content for each of the table cells 

So, let's say you want to create a table with two columns describing the
ingredients for a cookie recipe:

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      [*Amount*], [*Ingredient*],
      [360g], [Baking flour],
      [250g], [Butter (room temp.)],
      [150g], [Brown sugar],
      [100g], [Cane sugar],
      [100g], [70% cocoa chocolate],
      [100g], [35-40% cocoa chocolate],
      [2], [Eggs],
      [Pinch], [Salt],
      [Drizzle], [Vanilla extract],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DrLInmCn8ozR2FQ7a7txfwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example shows how to call, configure, and populate a table. Both the
column count and cell contents are passed to the table as arguments. The [
argument list ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) is surrounded by round
parentheses. In it, we first pass the column count as a named argument. Then,
we pass multiple [ content blocks ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) as
positional arguments. Each content block contains the contents for a single
cell.

To make the example more legible, we have placed two content block arguments
on each line, mimicking how they would appear in the table. You could also
write each cell on its own line. Typst does not care on which line you place
the arguments. Instead, Typst will place the content cells from left to right
(or right to left, if that is the writing direction of your language) and then
from top to bottom. It will automatically add enough rows to your table so
that it fits all of your content.

It is best to wrap the header row of your table in the [ ` table.header `
function ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-header) . This clarifies
your intent and will also allow future versions of Typst to make the output
more accessible to users with a screen reader:

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      table.header[*Amount*][*Ingredient*],
      [360g], [Baking flour],
     // ... the remaining cells
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/aiVJ7GWTsso2QP8oAOCqrgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You could also write a show rule that automatically [ strongly emphasizes
](/docs/reference/model/strong/) the contents of the first cells for all
tables. This quickly becomes useful if your document contains multiple tables!

    
    
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): strong
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      table.header[Amount][Ingredient],
      [360g], [Baking flour],
     // ... the remaining cells
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/U7CxDwHdU4boWRgp53c3XgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

We are using a show rule with a selector for cell coordinates here instead of
applying our styles directly to ` table.header ` . This is due to a current
limitation of Typst that will be fixed in a future release.

Congratulations, you have created your first table! Now you can proceed to
change column sizes  ,  adjust the strokes  ,  add striped rows  , and more!

##  How to change the column sizes?

If you create a table and specify the number of columns, Typst will make each
column large enough to fit its largest cell. Often, you want something
different, for example, to make a table span the whole width of the page. You
can provide a list, specifying how wide you want each column to be, through
the ` columns ` argument. There are a few different ways to specify column
widths:

  * First, there is ` auto  ` . This is the default behavior and tells Typst to grow the column to fit its contents. If there is not enough space, Typst will try its best to distribute the space among the ` auto  ` -sized columns. 
  * [ Lengths ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) like ` 6cm  ` , ` 0.7in  ` , or ` 120pt  ` . As usual, you can also use the font-dependent ` em ` unit. This is a multiple of your current font size. It's useful if you want to size your table so that it always fits about the same amount of text, independent of font size. 
  * A [ ratio in percent ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) such as ` 40%  ` . This will make the column take up 40% of the total horizontal space available to the table, so either the inner width of the page or the table's container. You can also mix ratios and lengths into [ relative lengths ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) . Be mindful that even if you specify a list of column widths that sum up to 100%, your table could still become larger than its container. This is because there can be [ gutter ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-gutter) between columns that is not included in the column widths. If you want to make a table fill the page, the next option is often very useful. 
  * A [ fractional part of the free space ](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) using the ` fr ` unit, such as ` 1fr ` . This unit allows you to distribute the available space to columns. It works as follows: First, Typst sums up the lengths of all columns that do not use ` fr ` s. Then, it determines how much horizontal space is left. This horizontal space then gets distributed to all columns denominated in ` fr ` s. During this process, a ` 2fr ` column will become twice as wide as a ` 1fr ` column. This is where the name comes from: The width of the column is its fraction of the total fractionally sized columns. 

Let's put this to use with a table that contains the dates, numbers, and
descriptions of some routine checks. The first two columns are ` auto ` -sized
and the last column is ` 1fr ` wide as to fill the whole page.

    
    
    #table(
      columns: (auto, auto, 1fr),
      table.header[Date][Â°No][Description],
      [24/01/03], [813], [Filtered participant pool],
      [24/01/03], [477], [Transitioned to sec. regimen],
      [24/01/11], [051], [Cycled treatment substrate],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/2U_qe89XvypLADel8g81vgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Here, we have passed our list of column lengths as an [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") , enclosed in round parentheses,
with its elements separated by commas. The first two columns are automatically
sized, so that they take on the size of their content and the third column is
sized as ` 1fr  ` so that it fills up the remainder of the space on the page.
If you wanted to instead change the second column to be a bit more spacious,
you could replace its entry in the ` columns ` array with a value like ` 6em
` .

##  How to caption and reference my table?

A table is just as valuable as the information your readers draw from it. You
can enhance the effectiveness of both your prose and your table by making a
clear connection between the two with a cross-reference. Typst can help you
with automatic [ references ](/docs/reference/model/ref/) and the [ ` figure `
function ](/docs/reference/model/figure/) .

Just like with images, wrapping a table in the ` figure ` function allows you
to add a caption and a label, so you can reference the figure elsewhere.
Wrapping your table in a figure also lets you use the figure's ` placement `
parameter to float it to the top or bottom of a page.

Let's take a look at a captioned table and how to reference it in prose:

    
    
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(weight: "bold")
    
    #figure(
      table(
        columns: 4,
        stroke: none,
    
        table.header[Test Item][Specification][Test Result][Compliance],
        [Voltage], [220V Â± 5%], [218V], [Pass],
        [Current], [5A Â± 0.5A], [4.2A], [Fail],
      ),
      caption: [Probe results for design A],
    ) <probe-a>
    
    The results from @probe-a show that the design is not yet optimal.
    We will show how its performance can be improved in this section.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/q8w9c3xaiqkQD9Ab1PAe6AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The example shows how to wrap a table in a figure, set a caption and a label,
and how to reference that label. We start by using the ` figure ` function. It
expects the contents of the figure as a positional argument. We just put the
table function call in its argument list, omitting the ` # ` character because
it is only needed when calling a function in markup mode. We also add the
caption as a named argument (above or below) the table.

After the figure call, we put a label in angle brackets ( ` <probe-a> ` ).
This tells Typst to remember this element and make it referenceable under this
name throughout your document. We can then reference it in prose by using the
at sign and the label name ` @probe-a  ` . Typst will print a nicely formatted
reference and automatically update the label if the table's number changes.

##  How to get a striped table?

Many tables use striped rows or columns instead of strokes to differentiate
between rows and columns. This effect is often called _zebra stripes._ Tables
with zebra stripes are popular in Business and commercial Data Analytics
applications, while academic applications tend to use strokes instead.

To add zebra stripes to a table, we use the ` table ` function's ` fill `
argument. It can take three kinds of arguments:

  * A single color (this can also be a gradient or a pattern) to fill all cells with. Because we want some cells to have another color, this is not useful if we want to build zebra tables. 
  * An array with colors which Typst cycles through for each column. We can use an array with two elements to get striped columns. 
  * A function that takes the horizontal coordinate ` x ` and the vertical coordinate ` y ` of a cell and returns its fill. We can use this to create horizontal stripes or [ checkerboard patterns ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell) . 

Let's start with an example of a horizontally striped table:

    
    
    #set text(font: "IBM Plex Sans")
    
    // Medium bold table header.
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(weight: "medium")
    
    // Bold titles.
    #show table.cell.where(x: 1): set text(weight: "bold")
    
    // See the strokes section for details on this!
    #let frame(stroke) = (x, y) => (
      left: if x > 0 { 0pt } else { stroke },
      right: stroke,
      top: if y < 2 { stroke } else { 0pt },
      bottom: stroke,
    )
    
    #set table(
      fill: (rgb("EAF2F5"), none),
      stroke: frame(rgb("21222C")),
    )
    
    #table(
      columns: (0.4fr, 1fr, 1fr, 1fr),
    
      table.header[Month][Title][Author][Genre],
      [January], [The Great Gatsby], [F. Scott Fitzgerald], [Classic],
      [February], [To Kill a Mockingbird], [Harper Lee], [Drama],
      [March], [1984], [George Orwell], [Dystopian],
      [April], [The Catcher in the Rye], [J.D. Salinger], [Coming-of-Age],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/UJoXkTjV0r6grf2p2oGJMAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example shows a book club reading list. The line ` fill:  (  rgb  (
"EAF2F5"  )  ,  none  )  ` in ` table ` 's set rule is all that is needed to
add striped columns. It tells Typst to alternate between coloring columns with
a light blue (in the [ ` rgb ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-
rgb) function call) and nothing ( ` none  ` ). Note that we extracted all of
our styling from the ` table ` function call itself into set and show rules,
so that we can automatically reuse it for multiple tables.

Because setting the stripes itself is easy we also added some other styles to
make it look nice. The other code in the example provides a dark blue  stroke
around the table and below the first line and emboldens the first row and the
column with the book title. See the  strokes  section for details on how we
achieved this stroke configuration.

Let's next take a look at how we can change only the set rule to achieve
horizontal stripes instead:

    
    
    #set table(
      fill: (_, y) => if calc.odd(y) { rgb("EAF2F5") },
      stroke: frame(rgb("21222C")),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/25lCWRlQDgNwC6P_ss5rsgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

We just need to replace the set rule from the previous example with this one
and get horizontal stripes instead. Here, we are passing a function to ` fill
` . It discards the horizontal coordinate with an underscore and then checks
if the vertical coordinate ` y ` of the cell is odd. If so, the cell gets a
light blue fill, otherwise, no fill is returned.

Of course, you can make this function arbitrarily complex. For example, if you
want to stripe the rows with a light and darker shade of blue, you could do
something like this:

    
    
    #set table(
      fill: (_, y) => (none, rgb("EAF2F5"), rgb("DDEAEF")).at(calc.rem(y, 3)),
      stroke: frame(rgb("21222C")),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/cCvrBfZ8ZZjy8abtCE_cmgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example shows an alternative approach to write our fill function. The
function uses an array with three colors and then cycles between its values
for each row by indexing the array with the remainder of ` y ` divided by 3.

Finally, here is a bonus example that uses the _stroke_ to achieve striped
rows:

    
    
    #set table(
      stroke: (x, y) => (
        y: 1pt,
        left: if x > 0 { 0pt } else if calc.even(y) { 1pt },
        right: if calc.even(y) { 1pt },
      ),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/GD_bV9_znidgeZ0v5zIXUAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  Manually overriding a cell's fill color

Sometimes, the fill of a cell needs not to vary based on its position in the
table, but rather based on its contents. We can use the [ ` table.cell `
element ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell) in the ` table ` 's
parameter list to wrap a cell's content and override its fill.

For example, here is a list of all German presidents, with the cell borders
colored in the color of their party.

    
    
    #set text(font: "Roboto")
    
    #let cdu(name) = ([CDU], table.cell(fill: black, text(fill: white, name)))
    #let spd(name) = ([SPD], table.cell(fill: red, text(fill: white, name)))
    #let fdp(name) = ([FDP], table.cell(fill: yellow, name))
    
    #table(
      columns: (auto, auto, 1fr),
      stroke: (x: none),
    
      table.header[Tenure][Party][President],
      [1949-1959], ..fdp[Theodor Heuss],
      [1959-1969], ..cdu[Heinrich LÃ¼bke],
      [1969-1974], ..spd[Gustav Heinemann],
      [1974-1979], ..fdp[Walter Scheel],
      [1979-1984], ..cdu[Karl Carstens],
      [1984-1994], ..cdu[Richard von WeizsÃ¤cker],
      [1994-1999], ..cdu[Roman Herzog],
      [1999-2004], ..spd[Johannes Rau],
      [2004-2010], ..cdu[Horst KÃ¶hler],
      [2010-2012], ..cdu[Christian Wulff],
      [2012-2017], [n/a], [Joachim Gauck],
      [2017-],     ..spd[Frank-Walter-Steinmeier],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Kc5oSTV9kIbzwSd275OEwQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In this example, we make use of variables because there only have been a total
of three parties whose members have become president (and one unaffiliated
president). Their colors will repeat multiple times, so we store a function
that produces an array with their party's name and a table cell with that
party's color and the president's name ( ` cdu ` , ` spd ` , and ` fdp ` ). We
then use these functions in the ` table ` argument list instead of directly
adding the name. We use the [ spread operator
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#spreading) ` .. ` to turn the items
of the arrays into single cells. We could also write something like ` [  FDP
]  , table  .  cell  (  fill  :  yellow  )  [  Theodor Heuss  ]  ` for each
cell directly in the ` table ` 's argument list, but that becomes unreadable,
especially for the parties whose colors are dark so that they require white
text. We also delete vertical strokes and set the font to Roboto.

The party column and the cell color in this example communicate redundant
information on purpose: Communicating important data using color only is a bad
accessibility practice. It disadvantages users with vision impairment and is
in violation of universal access standards, such as the [ WCAG 2.1 Success
Criterion 1.4.1 ](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/use-of-
color.html) . To improve this table, we added a column printing the party
name. Alternatively, you could have made sure to choose a color-blindness
friendly palette and mark up your cells with an additional label that screen
readers can read out loud. The latter feature is not currently supported by
Typst, but will be added in a future release. You can check how colors look
for color-blind readers with [ this Chrome extension
](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/colorblindly/floniaahmccleoclneebhhmnjgdfijgg)
, [ Photoshop ](https://helpx.adobe.com/photoshop/using/proofing-colors.html)
, or [ GIMP ](https://docs.gimp.org/2.10/en/gimp-display-filter-dialog.html) .

##  How to adjust the lines in a table?

By default, Typst adds strokes between each row and column of a table. You can
adjust these strokes in a variety of ways. Which one is the most practical,
depends on the modification you want to make and your intent:

  * Do you want to style all tables in your document, irrespective of their size and content? Use the ` table ` function's [ stroke ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-stroke) argument in a set rule. 
  * Do you want to customize all lines in a single table? Use the ` table ` function's [ stroke ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-stroke) argument when calling the table function. 
  * Do you want to change, add, or remove the stroke around a single cell? Use the ` table.cell ` element in the argument list of your table call. 
  * Do you want to change, add, or remove a single horizontal or vertical stroke in a single table? Use the [ ` table.hline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline "`table.hline`") and [ ` table.vline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-vline "`table.vline`") elements in the argument list of your table call. 

We will go over all of these options with examples next! First, we will tackle
the ` table ` function's [ stroke ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-
stroke) argument. Here, you can adjust both how the table's lines get drawn
and configure which lines are drawn at all.

Let's start by modifying the color and thickness of the stroke:

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 4,
      stroke: 0.5pt + rgb("666675"),
      [*Monday*], [11.5], [13.0], [4.0],
      [*Tuesday*], [8.0], [14.5], [5.0],
      [*Wednesday*], [9.0], [18.5], [13.0],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/y0uGf9aX-aUGWqCKMwHEJwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This makes the table lines a bit less wide and uses a bluish gray. You can see
that we added a width in point to a color to achieve our customized stroke.
This addition yields a value of the [ stroke type
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) . Alternatively, you can use the
dictionary representation for strokes which allows you to access advanced
features such as dashed lines.

The previous example showed how to use the stroke argument in the table
function's invocation. Alternatively, you can specify the stroke argument in
the ` table ` 's set rule. This will have exactly the same effect on all
subsequent ` table ` calls as if the stroke argument was specified in the
argument list. This is useful if you are writing a template or want to style
your whole document.

    
    
    // Renders the exact same as the last example
    #set table(stroke: 0.5pt + rgb("666675"))
    
    #table(
      columns: 4,
      [*Monday*], [11.5], [13.0], [4.0],
      [*Tuesday*], [8.0], [14.5], [5.0],
      [*Wednesday*], [9.0], [18.5], [13.0],
    )
    

For small tables, you sometimes want to suppress all strokes because they add
too much visual noise. To do this, just set the stroke argument to ` none  ` :

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 4,
      stroke: none,
      [*Monday*], [11.5], [13.0], [4.0],
      [*Tuesday*], [8.0], [14.5], [5.0],
      [*Wednesday*], [9.0], [18.5], [13.0],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/vQmODupZkk6MbI3nByjkqwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If you want more fine-grained control of where lines get placed in your table,
you can also pass a dictionary with the keys ` top ` , ` left ` , ` right ` ,
` bottom ` (controlling the respective cell sides), ` x ` , ` y ` (controlling
vertical and horizontal strokes), and ` rest ` (covers all strokes not styled
by other dictionary entries). All keys are optional; omitted keys will be
treated as if their value was the default value. For example, to get a table
with only horizontal lines, you can do this:

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      stroke: (x: none),
      align: horizon,
      [â], [Close cabin door],
      [â], [Start engines],
      [â], [Radio tower],
      [â], [Push back],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/eb2IfSiEgTxcBIC79R6b-QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This turns off all vertical strokes and leaves the horizontal strokes in
place. To achieve the reverse effect (only horizontal strokes), set the stroke
argument to ` (  y  :  none  )  ` instead.

Further down in the guide  , we cover how to use a function in the stroke
argument to customize all strokes individually. This is how you achieve more
complex stroking patterns.

###  Adding individual lines in the table

If you want to add a single horizontal or vertical line in your table, for
example to separate a group of rows, you can use the [ ` table.hline `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline "`table.hline`") and [ `
table.vline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-vline
"`table.vline`") elements for horizontal and vertical lines, respectively. Add
them to the argument list of the ` table ` function just like you would add
individual cells and a header.

Let's take a look at the following example from the reference:

    
    
    #set table.hline(stroke: 0.6pt)
    
    #table(
      stroke: none,
      columns: (auto, 1fr),
      // Morning schedule abridged.
      [14:00], [Talk: Tracked Layout],
      [15:00], [Talk: Automations],
      [16:00], [Workshop: Tables],
      table.hline(),
      [19:00], [Day 1 Attendee Mixer],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3OGDUdhafmvnsbwhpEZnqAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In this example, you can see that we have placed a call to ` table.hline `
between the cells, producing a horizontal line at that spot. We also used a
set rule on the element to reduce its stroke width to make it fit better with
the weight of the font.

By default, Typst places horizontal and vertical lines after the current row
or column, depending on their position in the argument list. You can also
manually move them to a different position by adding the ` y ` (for ` hline `
) or ` x ` (for ` vline ` ) argument. For example, the code below would
produce the same result:

    
    
    #set table.hline(stroke: 0.6pt)
    
    #table(
      stroke: none,
      columns: (auto, 1fr),
      // Morning schedule abridged.
      table.hline(y: 3),
      [14:00], [Talk: Tracked Layout],
      [15:00], [Talk: Automations],
      [16:00], [Workshop: Tables],
      [19:00], [Day 1 Attendee Mixer],
    )
    

Let's imagine you are working with a template that shows none of the table
strokes except for one between the first and second row. Now, since you have
one table that also has labels in the first column, you want to add an extra
vertical line to it. However, you do not want this vertical line to cross into
the top row. You can achieve this with the ` start ` argument:

    
    
    // Base template already configured tables, but we need some
    // extra configuration for this table.
    #{
      set table(align: (x, _) => if x == 0 { left } else { right })
      show table.cell.where(x: 0): smallcaps
      table(
        columns: (auto, 1fr, 1fr, 1fr),
        table.vline(x: 1, start: 1),
        table.header[Trainset][Top Speed][Length][Weight],
        [TGV RÃ©seau], [320 km/h], [200m], [383t],
        [ICE 403], [330 km/h], [201m], [409t],
        [Shinkansen N700], [300 km/h], [405m], [700t],
      )
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LINgvIDoMEPxmydMRnWXAgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In this example, we have added ` table.vline ` at the start of our positional
argument list. But because the line is not supposed to go to the left of the
first column, we specified the ` x ` argument as ` 1  ` . We also set the `
start ` argument to ` 1  ` so that the line does only start after the first
row.

The example also contains two more things: We use the align argument with a
function to right-align the data in all but the first column and use a show
rule to make the first column of table cells appear in small capitals. Because
these styles are specific to this one table, we put everything into a [ code
block ](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) , so that the styling does not
affect any further tables.

###  Overriding the strokes of a single cell

Imagine you want to change the stroke around a single cell. Maybe your cell is
very important and needs highlighting! For this scenario, there is the [ `
table.cell ` function ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell) .
Instead of adding your content directly in the argument list of the table, you
wrap it in a ` table.cell ` call. Now, you can use ` table.cell ` 's argument
list to override the table properties, such as the stroke, for this cell only.

Here's an example with a matrix of two of the Big Five personality factors,
with one intersection highlighted.

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 3,
      stroke: (x: none),
    
      [], [*High Neuroticism*], [*Low Neuroticism*],
    
      [*High Agreeableness*],
      table.cell(stroke: orange + 2pt)[
        _Sensitive_ \ Prone to emotional distress but very empathetic.
      ],
      [_Compassionate_ \ Caring and stable, often seen as a supportive figure.],
    
      [*Low Agreeableness*],
      [_Contentious_ \ Competitive and easily agitated.],
      [_Detached_ \ Independent and calm, may appear aloof.],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zT-rPhodrO99vfmjEknOKwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Above, you can see that we used the ` table.cell ` element in the table's
argument list and passed the cell content to it. We have used its ` stroke `
argument to set a wider orange stroke. Despite the fact that we disabled
vertical strokes on the table, the orange stroke appeared on all sides of the
modified cell, showing that the table's stroke configuration is overwritten.

###  Complex document-wide stroke customization

This section explains how to customize all lines at once in one or multiple
tables. This allows you to draw only the first horizontal line or omit the
outer lines, without knowing how many cells the table has. This is achieved by
providing a function to the table's ` stroke ` parameter. The function should
return a stroke given the zero-indexed x and y position of the current cell.
You should only need these functions if you are a template author, do not use
a template, or need to heavily customize your tables. Otherwise, your template
should set appropriate default table strokes.

For example, this is a set rule that draws all horizontal lines except for the
very first and last line.

    
    
    #show table.cell.where(x: 0): set text(style: "italic")
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(style: "normal", weight: "bold")
    #set table(stroke: (_, y) => if y > 0 { (top: 0.8pt) })
    
    #table(
      columns: 3,
      align: center + horizon,
      table.header[Technique][Advantage][Drawback],
      [Diegetic], [Immersive], [May be contrived],
      [Extradiegetic], [Breaks immersion], [Obtrusive],
      [Omitted], [Fosters engagement], [May fracture audience],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/SKiPog79AfwUoglArT-17wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In the set rule, we pass a function that receives two arguments, assigning the
vertical coordinate to ` y ` and discarding the horizontal coordinate. It then
returns a stroke dictionary with a ` 0.8pt  ` top stroke for all but the first
line. The cells in the first line instead implicitly receive ` none  ` as the
return value. You can easily modify this function to just draw the inner
vertical lines instead as ` (  x  ,  _  )  => if  x  > 0  {  (  left  :  0.8pt
)  }  ` .

Let's try a few more stroking functions. The next function will only draw a
line below the first row:

    
    
    #set table(stroke: (_, y) => if y == 0 { (bottom: 1pt) })
    
    // Table as seen above
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nyvsIK-tDvHuRwbnwhj4kQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If you understood the first example, it becomes obvious what happens here. We
check if we are in the first row. If so, we return a bottom stroke. Otherwise,
we'll return ` none  ` implicitly.

The next example shows how to draw all but the outer lines:

    
    
    #set table(stroke: (x, y) => (
      left: if x > 0 { 0.8pt },
      top: if y > 0 { 0.8pt },
    ))
    
    // Table as seen above
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QRh4-eyPqD4Yz9VResk9dwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example uses both the ` x ` and ` y ` coordinates. It omits the left
stroke in the first column and the top stroke in the first row. The right and
bottom lines are not drawn.

Finally, here is a table that draws all lines except for the vertical lines in
the first row and horizontal lines in the table body. It looks a bit like a
calendar.

    
    
    #set table(stroke: (x, y) => (
      left: if x == 0 or y > 0 { 1pt } else {Â 0pt },
      right: 1pt,
      top: if y <= 1 { 1pt } else {Â 0pt },
      bottom: 1pt,
    ))
    
    // Table as seen above
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qw8tKe_4tpVbtFAmFf0POQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example is a bit more complex. We start by drawing all the strokes on the
right of the cells. But this means that we have drawn strokes in the top row,
too, and we don't need those! We use the fact that ` left ` will override `
right ` and only draw the left line if we are not in the first row or if we
are in the first column. In all other cases, we explicitly remove the left
line. Finally, we draw the horizontal lines by first setting the bottom line
and then for the first two rows with the ` top ` key, suppressing all other
top lines. The last line appears because there is no ` top ` line that could
suppress it.

###  How to achieve a double line?

Typst does not yet have a native way to draw double strokes, but there are
multiple ways to emulate them, for example with [ patterns
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) . We will show a different workaround in
this section: Table gutters.

Tables can space their cells apart using the ` gutter ` argument. When a
gutter is applied, a stroke is drawn on each of the now separated cells. We
can selectively add gutter between the rows or columns for which we want to
draw a double line. The ` row-gutter ` and ` column-gutter ` arguments allow
us to do this. They accept arrays of gutter values. Let's take a look at an
example:

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 3,
      stroke: (x: none),
      row-gutter: (2.2pt, auto),
      table.header[Date][Exercise Type][Calories Burned],
      [2023-03-15], [Swimming], [400],
      [2023-03-17], [Weightlifting], [250],
      [2023-03-18], [Yoga], [200],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ketpWMF_8TQEKQlrbhiNRQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

We can see that we used an array for ` row-gutter ` that specifies a ` 2.2pt
` gap between the first and second row. It then continues with ` auto ` (which
is the default, in this case ` 0pt  ` gutter) which will be the gutter between
all other rows, since it is the last entry in the array.

##  How to align the contents of the cells in my table?

You can use multiple mechanisms to align the content in your table. You can
either use the ` table ` function's ` align ` argument to set the alignment
for your whole table (or use it in a set rule to set the alignment for tables
throughout your document) or the [ ` align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/align/
"`align`") function (or ` table.cell ` 's ` align ` argument) to override the
alignment of a single cell.

When using the ` table ` function's align argument, you can choose between
three methods to specify an [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/
"alignment") :

  * Just specify a single alignment like ` right ` (aligns in the top-right corner) or ` center + horizon ` (centers all cell content). This changes the alignment of all cells. 
  * Provide an array. Typst will cycle through this array for each column. 
  * Provide a function that is passed the horizontal ` x ` and vertical ` y ` coordinate of a cell and returns an alignment. 

For example, this travel itinerary right-aligns the day column and left-aligns
everything else by providing an array in the ` align ` argument:

    
    
    #set text(font: "IBM Plex Sans")
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(weight: "bold")
    
    #table(
      columns: 4,
      align: (right, left, left, left),
      fill: (_, y) => if calc.odd(y) { green.lighten(90%) },
      stroke: none,
    
      table.header[Day][Location][Hotel or Apartment][Activities],
      [1], [Paris, France], [Hotel de L'Europe], [Arrival, Evening River Cruise],
      [2], [Paris, France], [Hotel de L'Europe], [Louvre Museum, Eiffel Tower],
      [3], [Lyon, France], [Lyon City Hotel], [City Tour, Local Cuisine Tasting],
      [4], [Geneva, Switzerland], [Lakeview Inn], [Lake Geneva, Red Cross Museum],
      [5], [Zermatt, Switzerland], [Alpine Lodge], [Visit Matterhorn, Skiing],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JDfAUmIJzQHzE6NL8LKAnwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

However, this example does not yet look perfect â the header cells should be
bottom-aligned. Let's use a function instead to do so:

    
    
    #set text(font: "IBM Plex Sans")
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(weight: "bold")
    
    #table(
      columns: 4,
      align: (x, y) =>
        if x == 0 { right } else { left } +
        if y == 0 { bottom } else { top },
      fill: (_, y) => if calc.odd(y) { green.lighten(90%) },
      stroke: none,
    
      table.header[Day][Location][Hotel or Apartment][Activities],
      [1], [Paris, France], [Hotel de L'Europe], [Arrival, Evening River Cruise],
      [2], [Paris, France], [Hotel de L'Europe], [Louvre Museum, Eiffel Tower],
     // ... remaining days omitted
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ENpsdZXkKtSK7dBT6e9dAgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In the function, we calculate a horizontal and vertical alignment based on
whether we are in the first column ( ` x  ==  0  ` ) or the first row ( ` y
==  0  ` ). We then make use of the fact that we can add horizontal and
vertical alignments with ` + ` to receive a single, two-dimensional alignment.

You can find an example of using ` table.cell ` to change a single cell's
alignment on [ its reference page ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-
cell) .

##  How to merge cells?

When a table contains logical groupings or the same data in multiple adjacent
cells, merging multiple cells into a single, larger cell can be advantageous.
Another use case for cell groups are table headers with multiple rows: That
way, you can group for example a sales data table by quarter in the first row
and by months in the second row.

A merged cell spans multiple rows and/or columns. You can achieve it with the
[ ` table.cell ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell
"`table.cell`") function's ` rowspan ` and ` colspan ` arguments: Just specify
how many rows or columns you want your cell to span.

The example below contains an attendance calendar for an office with in-person
and remote days for each team member. To make the table more glanceable, we
merge adjacent cells with the same value:

    
    
    #let ofi = [Office]
    #let rem = [_Remote_]
    #let lea = [*On leave*]
    
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(
      fill: white,
      weight: "bold",
    )
    
    #table(
      columns: 6 * (1fr,),
      align: (x, y) => if x == 0 or y == 0 { left } else { center },
      stroke: (x, y) => (
        // Separate black cells with white strokes.
        left: if y == 0 and x > 0 { white } else { black },
        rest: black,
      ),
      fill: (_, y) => if y == 0 { black },
    
      table.header(
        [Team member],
        [Monday],
        [Tuesday],
        [Wednesday],
        [Thursday],
        [Friday]
      ),
      [Evelyn Archer],
        table.cell(colspan: 2, ofi),
        table.cell(colspan: 2, rem),
        ofi,
      [Lila Montgomery],
        table.cell(colspan: 5, lea),
      [Nolan Pearce],
        rem,
        table.cell(colspan: 2, ofi),
        rem,
        ofi,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yyaKf-LLQbyy3QccVJXb2wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In the example, we first define variables with "Office", "Remote", and "On
leave" so we don't have to write these labels out every time. We can then use
these variables in the table body either directly or in a ` table.cell ` call
if the team member spends multiple consecutive days in office, remote, or on
leave.

The example also contains a black header (created with ` table ` 's ` fill `
argument) with white strokes ( ` table ` 's ` stroke ` argument) and white
text (set by the ` table.cell ` set rule). Finally, we align all the content
of all table cells in the body in the center. If you want to know more about
the functions passed to ` align ` , ` stroke ` , and ` fill ` , you can check
out the sections on [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/
"alignment") ,  strokes  , and  striped tables  .

This table would be a great candidate for fully automated generation from an
external data source! Check out the  section about importing data  to learn
more about that.

##  How to rotate a table?

When tables have many columns, a portrait paper orientation can quickly get
cramped. Hence, you'll sometimes want to switch your tables to landscape
orientation. There are two ways to accomplish this in Typst:

  * If you want to rotate only the table but not the other content of the page and the page itself, use the [ ` rotate ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/) with the ` reflow ` argument set to ` true  ` . 
  * If you want to rotate the whole page the table is on, you can use the [ ` page ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) with its ` flipped ` argument set to ` true  ` . The header, footer, and page number will now also appear on the long edge of the page. This has the advantage that the table will appear right side up when read on a computer, but it also means that a page in your document has different dimensions than all the others, which can be jarring to your readers. 

Below, we will demonstrate both techniques with a student grade book table.

First, we will rotate the table on the page. The example also places some text
on the right of the table.

    
    
    #set page("a5", columns: 2, numbering: "â 1 â")
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(weight: "bold")
    
    #rotate(
      -90deg,
      reflow: true,
    
      table(
        columns: (1fr,) + 5 * (auto,),
        inset: (x: 0.6em,),
        stroke: (_, y) => (
          x: 1pt,
          top: if y <= 1 { 1pt } else {Â 0pt },
          bottom: 1pt,
        ),
        align: (left, right, right, right, right, left),
    
        table.header(
          [Student Name],
          [Assignment 1], [Assignment 2],
          [Mid-term], [Final Exam],
          [Total Grade],
        ),
        [Jane Smith], [78%], [82%], [75%], [80%], [B],
        [Alex Johnson], [90%], [95%], [94%], [96%], [A+],
        [John Doe], [85%], [90%], [88%], [92%], [A],
        [Maria Garcia], [88%], [84%], [89%], [85%], [B+],
        [Zhang Wei], [93%], [89%], [90%], [91%], [A-],
        [Marina Musterfrau], [96%], [91%], [74%], [69%], [B-],
      ),
    )
    
    #lorem(80)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/t_mhLmSe89ZV_R--e5hFagAAAAAAAAAA.png)

What we have here is a two-column document on ISO A5 paper with page numbers
on the bottom. The table has six columns and contains a few customizations to
stroke  , alignment and spacing. But the most important part is that the table
is wrapped in a call to the ` rotate ` function with the ` reflow ` argument
being ` true  ` . This will make the table rotate 90 degrees counterclockwise.
The reflow argument is needed so that the table's rotation affects the layout.
If it was omitted, Typst would lay out the page as if the table was not
rotated ( ` true  ` might become the default in the future).

The example also shows how to produce many columns of the same size: To the
initial ` 1fr  ` column, we add an array with five ` auto  ` items that we
create by multiplying an array with one ` auto  ` item by five. Note that
arrays with just one item need a trailing comma to distinguish them from
merely parenthesized expressions.

The second example shows how to rotate the whole page, so that the table stays
upright:

    
    
    #set page("a5", numbering: "â 1 â")
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(weight: "bold")
    
    #page(flipped: true)[
      #table(
        columns: (1fr,) + 5 * (auto,),
        inset: (x: 0.6em,),
        stroke: (_, y) => (
          x: 1pt,
          top: if y <= 1 { 1pt } else {Â 0pt },
          bottom: 1pt,
        ),
        align: (left, right, right, right, right, left),
    
        table.header(
          [Student Name],
          [Assignment 1], [Assignment 2],
          [Mid-term], [Final Exam],
          [Total Grade],
        ),
        [Jane Smith], [78%], [82%], [75%], [80%], [B],
        [Alex Johnson], [90%], [95%], [94%], [96%], [A+],
        [John Doe], [85%], [90%], [88%], [92%], [A],
        [Maria Garcia], [88%], [84%], [89%], [85%], [B+],
        [Zhang Wei], [93%], [89%], [90%], [91%], [A-],
        [Marina Musterfrau], [96%], [91%], [74%], [69%], [B-],
      )
    
      #pad(x: 15%, top: 1.5em)[
        = Winter 2023/24 results
        #lorem(80)
      ]
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9Goo6xTF0vprclhyFSb4zwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Here, we take the same table and the other content we want to set with it and
put it into a call to the [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/ "`page`")
function while supplying ` true  ` to the ` flipped ` argument. This will
instruct Typst to create new pages with width and height swapped and place the
contents of the function call onto a new page. Notice how the page number is
also on the long edge of the paper now. At the bottom of the page, we use the
[ ` pad ` ](/docs/reference/layout/pad/ "`pad`") function to constrain the
width of the paragraph to achieve a nice and legible line length.

##  How to break a table across pages?

It is best to contain a table on a single page. However, some tables just have
many rows, so breaking them across pages becomes unavoidable. Fortunately,
Typst supports breaking tables across pages out of the box. If you are using
the [ ` table.header ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-header
"`table.header`") and [ ` table.footer `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-footer "`table.footer`") functions,
their contents will be repeated on each page as the first and last rows,
respectively. If you want to disable this behavior, you can set ` repeat ` to
` false  ` on either of them.

If you have placed your table inside of a [ figure
](/docs/reference/model/figure/ "figure") , it becomes unable to break across
pages by default. However, you can change this behavior. Let's take a look:

    
    
    #set page(width: 9cm, height: 6cm)
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): set text(weight: "bold")
    #show figure: set block(breakable: true)
    
    #figure(
      caption: [Training regimen for Marathon],
      table(
        columns: 3,
        fill: (_, y) => if y == 0 { gray.lighten(75%) },
    
        table.header[Week][Distance (km)][Time (hh:mm:ss)],
        [1], [5],  [00:30:00],
        [2], [7],  [00:45:00],
        [3], [10], [01:00:00],
        [4], [12], [01:10:00],
        [5], [15], [01:25:00],
        [6], [18], [01:40:00],
        [7], [20], [01:50:00],
        [8], [22], [02:00:00],
        [...], [...], [...],
        table.footer[_Goal_][_42.195_][_02:45:00_],
      )
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LN81XNtn32FKL9Eh3VVjowAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/LN81XNtn32FKL9Eh3VVjowAAAAAAAAAB.png)

A figure automatically produces a [ block ](/docs/reference/layout/block/
"block") which cannot break by default. However, we can reconfigure the block
of the figure using a show rule to make it ` breakable ` . Now, the figure
spans multiple pages with the headers and footers repeating.

##  How to import data into a table?

Often, you need to put data that you obtained elsewhere into a table.
Sometimes, this is from Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets, sometimes it is from
a dataset on the web or from your experiment. Fortunately, Typst can load many
[ common file formats ](/docs/reference/data-loading/) , so you can use
scripting to include their data in a table.

The most common file format for tabular data is CSV. You can obtain a CSV file
from Excel by choosing "Save as" in the _File_ menu and choosing the file
format "CSV UTF-8 (Comma-delimited) (.csv)". Save the file and, if you are
using the web app, upload it to your project.

In our case, we will be building a table about Moore's Law. For this purpose,
we are using a statistic with [ how many transistors the average
microprocessor consists of per year from Our World in Data
](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/transistors-per-microprocessor) . Let's
start by pressing the "Download" button to get a CSV file with the raw data.

Be sure to move the file to your project or somewhere Typst can see it, if you
are using the CLI. Once you did that, we can open the file to see how it is
structured:

    
    
    Entity,Code,Year,Transistors per microprocessor
    World,OWID_WRL,1971,2308.2417
    World,OWID_WRL,1972,3554.5222
    World,OWID_WRL,1974,6097.5625
    

The file starts with a header and contains four columns: Entity (which is to
whom the metric applies), Code, the year, and the number of transistors per
microprocessor. Only the last two columns change between each row, so we can
disregard "Entity" and "Code".

First, let's start by loading this file with the [ ` csv `
](/docs/reference/data-loading/csv/ "`csv`") function. It accepts the file
name of the file we want to load as a string argument:

    
    
    #let moore = csv("moore.csv")
    

We have loaded our file (assuming we named it ` moore.csv ` ) and [ bound it
](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) to the new variable ` moore ` . This
will not produce any output, so there's nothing to see yet. If we want to
examine what Typst loaded, we can either hover the name of the variable in the
web app or print some items from the array:

    
    
    #let moore = csv("moore.csv")
    
    #moore.slice(0, 3)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4Wrq2xnRY1_FUBMwiwPizQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

With the arguments ` (  0  ,  3  )  ` , the [ ` slice `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-slice) method returns the
first three items in the array (with the indices 0, 1, and 2). We can see that
each row is its own array with one item per cell.

Now, let's write a loop that will transform this data into an array of cells
that we can use with the table function.

    
    
    #let moore = csv("moore.csv")
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      ..for (.., year, count) in moore {
        (year, count)
      }
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1JHLF5egGPQD3C2V0wZONgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The example above uses a for loop that iterates over the rows in our CSV file
and returns an array for each iteration. We use the for loop's [ destructuring
](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) capability to discard all but the last
two items of each row. We then create a new array with just these two. Because
Typst will concatenate the array results of all the loop iterations, we get a
one-dimensional array in which the year column and the number of transistors
alternate. We can then insert the array as cells. For this we use the [ spread
operator ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#spreading) ( ` .. ` ). By
prefixing an array, or, in our case an expression that yields an array, with
two dots, we tell Typst that the array's items should be used as positional
arguments.

Alternatively, we can also use the [ ` map `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-map) , [ ` slice `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-slice) , and [ ` flatten `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-flatten) array methods to
write this in a more functional style:

    
    
    #let moore = csv("moore.csv")
    
    #table(
       columns: moore.first().len(),
       ..moore.map(m => m.slice(2)).flatten(),
    )
    

This example renders the same as the previous one, but first uses the ` map `
function to change each row of the data. We pass a function to map that gets
run on each row of the CSV and returns a new value to replace that row with.
We use it to discard the first two columns with ` slice ` . Then, we spread
the data into the ` table ` function. However, we need to pass a one-
dimensional array and ` moore ` 's value is two-dimensional (that means that
each of its row values contains an array with the cell data). That's why we
call ` flatten ` which converts it to a one-dimensional array. We also extract
the number of columns from the data itself.

Now that we have nice code for our table, we should try to also make the table
itself nice! The transistor counts go from millions in 1995 to trillions in
2021 and changes are difficult to see with so many digits. We could try to
present our data logarithmically to make it more digestible:

    
    
    #let moore = csv("moore.csv")
    #let moore-log = moore.slice(1).map(m => {
      let (.., year, count) = m
      let log = calc.log(float(count))
      let rounded = str(calc.round(log, digits: 2))
      (year, rounded)
    })
    
    #show table.cell.where(x: 0): strong
    
    #table(
       columns: moore-log.first().len(),
       align: right,
       fill: (_, y) => if calc.odd(y) { rgb("D7D9E0") },
       stroke: none,
    
       table.header[Year][Transistor count ($log_10$)],
       table.hline(stroke: rgb("4D4C5B")),
       ..moore-log.flatten(),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ZOXJwHX6lPP_GLnz4eAxbQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In this example, we first drop the header row from the data since we are
adding our own. Then, we discard all but the last two columns as above. We do
this by [ destructuring ](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) the array ` m `
, discarding all but the two last items. We then convert the string in ` count
` to a floating point number, calculate its logarithm and store it in the
variable ` log ` . Finally, we round it to two digits, convert it to a string,
and store it in the variable ` rounded ` . Then, we return an array with `
year ` and ` rounded ` that replaces the original row. In our table, we have
added our custom header that tells the reader that we've applied a logarithm
to the values. Then, we spread the flattened data as above.

We also styled the table with  stripes  , a  horizontal line  below the first
row,  aligned  everything to the right, and emboldened the first column. Click
on the links to go to the relevant guide sections and see how it's done!

##  What if I need the table function for something that isn't a table?

Tabular layouts of content can be useful not only for matrices of closely
related data, like shown in the examples throughout this guide, but also for
presentational purposes. Typst differentiates between grids that are for
layout and presentational purposes only and tables, in which the arrangement
of the cells itself conveys information.

To make this difference clear to other software and allow templates to heavily
style tables, Typst has two functions for grid and table layout:

  * The [ ` table ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/ "`table`") function explained throughout this guide which is intended for tabular data. 
  * The [ ` grid ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/ "`grid`") function which is intended for presentational purposes and page layout. 

Both elements work the same way and have the same arguments. You can apply
everything you have learned about tables in this guide to grids. There are
only three differences:

  * You'll need to use the [ ` grid.cell ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell "`grid.cell`") , [ ` grid.vline ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-vline "`grid.vline`") , and [ ` grid.hline ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-hline "`grid.hline`") elements instead of [ ` table.cell ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell "`table.cell`") , [ ` table.vline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-vline "`table.vline`") , and [ ` table.hline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline "`table.hline`") . 
  * The grid has different defaults: It draws no strokes by default and has no spacing ( ` inset ` ) inside of its cells. 
  * Elements like ` figure ` do not react to grids since they are supposed to have no semantical bearing on the document structure. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Page setup guide  Previous page
](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Changelog  Next page  ](/docs/changelog/)



# **docs/guides/guide-for-latex-users.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Guides ](/docs/guides/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Guide for LaTeX users ](/docs/guides/guide-for-latex-users/)

#  Guide for LaTeX users

This page is a good starting point if you have used LaTeX before and want to
try out Typst. We will explore the main differences between these two systems
from a user perspective. Although Typst is not built upon LaTeX and has a
different syntax, you will learn how to use your LaTeX skills to get a head
start.

Just like LaTeX, Typst is a markup-based typesetting system: You compose your
document in a text file and mark it up with commands and other syntax. Then,
you use a compiler to typeset the source file into a PDF. However, Typst also
differs from LaTeX in several aspects: For one, Typst uses more dedicated
syntax (like you may know from Markdown) for common tasks. Typst's commands
are also more principled: They all work the same, so unlike in LaTeX, you just
need to understand a few general concepts instead of learning different
conventions for each package. Moreover Typst compiles faster than LaTeX:
Compilation usually takes milliseconds, not seconds, so the web app and the
compiler can both provide instant previews.

In the following, we will cover some of the most common questions a user
switching from LaTeX will have when composing a document in Typst. If you
prefer a step-by-step introduction to Typst, check out our [ tutorial
](/docs/tutorial/ "tutorial") .

##  Installation

You have two ways to use Typst: In [ our web app ](https://typst.app/signup/)
or by [ installing the compiler ](https://github.com/typst/typst/releases) on
your computer. When you use the web app, we provide a batteries-included
collaborative editor and run Typst in your browser, no installation required.

If you choose to use Typst on your computer instead, you can download the
compiler as a single, small binary which any user can run, no root privileges
required. Unlike LaTeX, packages are downloaded when you first use them and
then cached locally, keeping your Typst installation lean. You can use your
own editor and decide where to store your files with the local compiler.

##  How do I create a new, empty document?

That's easy. You just create a new, empty text file (the file extension is `
.typ ` ). No boilerplate is needed to get started. Simply start by writing
your text. It will be set on an empty A4-sized page. If you are using the web
app, click "+ Empty document" to create a new project with a file and enter
the editor. [ Paragraph breaks ](/docs/reference/model/parbreak/) work just as
they do in LaTeX, just use a blank line.

    
    
    Hey there!
    
    Here are two paragraphs. The
    output is shown to the right.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1Xaxf-Fz-W7agcXqKmLyjQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If you want to start from an preexisting LaTeX document instead, you can use [
Pandoc ](https://pandoc.org) to convert your source code to Typst markup. This
conversion is also built into our web app, so you can upload your ` .tex `
file to start your project in Typst.

##  How do I create section headings, emphasis, ...?

LaTeX uses the command ` \section ` to create a section heading. Nested
headings are indicated with ` \subsection ` , ` \subsubsection ` , etc.
Depending on your document class, there is also ` \part ` or ` \chapter ` .

In Typst, [ headings ](/docs/reference/model/heading/) are less verbose: You
prefix the line with the heading on it with an equals sign and a space to get
a first-order heading: ` = Introduction  ` . If you need a second-order
heading, you use two equals signs: ` == In this paper  ` . You can nest
headings as deeply as you'd like by adding more equals signs.

Emphasis (usually rendered as italic text) is expressed by enclosing text in `
_underscores_  ` and strong emphasis (usually rendered in boldface) by using `
*stars*  ` instead.

Here is a list of common markup commands used in LaTeX and their Typst
equivalents. You can also check out the [ full syntax cheat sheet
](/docs/reference/syntax/) .

Element  |  LaTeX  |  Typst  |  See   
---|---|---|---  
Strong emphasis  |  ` \textbf{strong} ` |  ` *strong*  ` |  [ ` strong ` ](/docs/reference/model/strong/ "`strong`")  
Emphasis  |  ` \emph{emphasis} ` |  ` _emphasis_  ` |  [ ` emph ` ](/docs/reference/model/emph/ "`emph`")  
Monospace / code  |  ` \texttt{print(1)} ` |  ` `print(1)`  ` |  [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`")  
Link  |  ` \url{https://typst.app} ` |  ` https://typst.app/  ` |  [ ` link ` ](/docs/reference/model/link/ "`link`")  
Label  |  ` \label{intro} ` |  ` <intro> ` |  [ ` label ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "`label`")  
Reference  |  ` \ref{intro} ` |  ` @intro  ` |  [ ` ref ` ](/docs/reference/model/ref/ "`ref`")  
Citation  |  ` \cite{humphrey97} ` |  ` @humphrey97  ` |  [ ` cite ` ](/docs/reference/model/cite/ "`cite`")  
Bullet list  |  ` itemize ` environment  |  ` -  List ` |  [ ` list ` ](/docs/reference/model/list/ "`list`")  
Numbered list  |  ` enumerate ` environment  |  ` +  List ` |  [ ` enum ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/ "`enum`")  
Term list  |  ` description ` environment  |  ` /  Term  :  List ` |  [ ` terms ` ](/docs/reference/model/terms/ "`terms`")  
Figure  |  ` figure ` environment  |  ` figure ` function  |  [ ` figure ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/ "`figure`")  
Table  |  ` table ` environment  |  ` table ` function  |  [ ` table ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/ "`table`")  
Equation  |  ` $x$ ` , ` align ` / ` equation ` environments  |  ` $  x  $  ` , ` $  x = y  $  ` |  [ ` equation ` ](/docs/reference/math/equation/)  
  
[ Lists ](/docs/reference/model/list/) do not rely on environments in Typst.
Instead, they have lightweight syntax like headings. To create an unordered
list ( ` itemize ` ), prefix each line of an item with a hyphen:

    
    
    To write this list in Typst...
    
    ```latex
    \begin{itemize}
      \item Fast
      \item Flexible
      \item Intuitive
    \end{itemize}
    ```
    
    ...just type this:
    
    - Fast
    - Flexible
    - Intuitive
    
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/EtxJBpmzn-Q3caUem89mOQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Nesting lists works just by using proper indentation. Adding a blank line in
between items results in a more [ widely
](/docs/reference/model/list/#parameters-tight) spaced list.

To get a [ numbered list ](/docs/reference/model/enum/) ( ` enumerate ` )
instead, use a ` + ` instead of the hyphen. For a [ term list
](/docs/reference/model/terms/) ( ` description ` ), write ` /  Term  :
Description ` instead.

##  How do I use a command?

LaTeX heavily relies on commands (prefixed by backslashes). It uses these
_macros_ to affect the typesetting process and to insert and manipulate
content. Some commands accept arguments, which are most frequently enclosed in
curly braces: ` \cite{rasmus} ` .

Typst differentiates between [ markup mode and code mode
](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) . The default is markup mode, where you
compose text and apply syntactic constructs such as ` *stars for bold text*  `
. Code mode, on the other hand, parallels programming languages like Python,
providing the option to input and execute segments of code.

Within Typst's markup, you can switch to code mode for a single command (or
rather, _expression_ ) using a hash ( ` # ` ). This is how you call functions
to, for example, split your project into different [ files
](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) or render text based on some [ condition
](/docs/reference/scripting/#conditionals) . Within code mode, it is possible
to include normal markup [ _content_ ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)
by using square brackets. Within code mode, this content is treated just as
any other normal value for a variable.

    
    
    First, a rectangle:
    #rect()
    
    Let me show how to do
    #underline([_underlined_ text])
    
    We can also do some maths:
    #calc.max(3, 2 * 4)
    
    And finally a little loop:
    #for x in range(3) [
      Hi #x.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YRh-AUkIq4C1mI8DVTggswAAAAAAAAAA.png)

A function call always involves the name of the function ( [ ` rect `
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/ "`rect`") , [ ` underline `
](/docs/reference/text/underline/ "`underline`") , [ ` calc.max `
](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-max) , [ ` range `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-range) ) followed by
parentheses (as opposed to LaTeX where the square brackets and curly braces
are optional if the macro requires no arguments). The expected list of
arguments passed within those parentheses depends on the concrete function and
is specified in the [ reference ](/docs/reference/ "reference") .

###  Arguments

A function can have multiple arguments. Some arguments are positional, i.e.,
you just provide the value: The function ` #  lower  (  "SCREAM"  )  ` returns
its argument in all-lowercase. Many functions use named arguments instead of
positional arguments to increase legibility. For example, the dimensions and
stroke of a rectangle are defined with named arguments:

    
    
    #rect(
      width: 2cm,
      height: 1cm,
      stroke: red,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qhelTU2eEzhkL0zp__ciIAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You specify a named argument by first entering its name (above, it's ` width `
, ` height ` , and ` stroke ` ), then a colon, followed by the value ( ` 2cm `
, ` 1cm ` , ` red ` ). You can find the available named arguments in the [
reference page ](/docs/reference/) for each function or in the autocomplete
panel when typing. Named arguments are similar to how some LaTeX environments
are configured, for example, you would type `
\begin{enumerate}[label={\alph*)}] ` to start a list with the labels ` a) ` ,
` b) ` , and so on.

Often, you want to provide some [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/ "content") to a function. For example,
the LaTeX command ` \underline{Alternative A} ` would translate to ` #
underline  (  [  Alternative A  ]  )  ` in Typst. The square brackets indicate
that a value is [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/ "content") .
Within these brackets, you can use normal markup. However, that's a lot of
parentheses for a pretty simple construct. This is why you can also move
trailing content arguments after the parentheses (and omit the parentheses if
they would end up empty).

    
    
    Typst is an #underline[alternative]
    to LaTeX.
    
    #rect(fill: aqua)[Get started here!]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/mXv-36m3C2iLosBLIxMjHwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  Data types

You likely already noticed that the arguments have distinctive data types.
Typst supports many [ data types ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/) . Below,
there is a table with some of the most important ones and how to write them.
In order to specify values of any of these types, you have to be in code mode!

Data type  |  Example   
---|---  
[ Content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) |  ` [  *fast*  typesetting  ]  `  
[ String ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) |  ` "Pietro S. Author"  `  
[ Integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) |  ` 23  `  
[ Floating point number ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) |  ` 1.459  `  
[ Absolute length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) |  ` 12pt  ` , ` 5in  ` , ` 0.3cm  ` , ...   
[ Relative length ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) |  ` 65%  `  
  
The difference between content and string is that content can contain markup,
including function calls, while a string really is just a plain sequence of
characters.

Typst provides [ control flow constructs
](/docs/reference/scripting/#conditionals) and [ operators
](/docs/reference/scripting/#operators) such as ` + ` for adding things or `
== ` for checking equality between two variables.

You can also store values, including functions, in your own [ variables
](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) . This can be useful to perform
computations on them, create reusable automations, or reference a value
multiple times. The variable binding is accomplished with the let keyword,
which works similar to ` \newcommand ` :

    
    
    // Store the integer `5`.
    #let five = 5
    
    // Define a function that
    // increments a value.
    #let inc(i) = i + 1
    
    // Reference the variables.
    I have #five fingers.
    
    If I had one more, I'd have
    #inc(five) fingers. Whoa!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/B033fxNtvCwYya9MX4R6xwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  Commands to affect the remaining document

In LaTeX, some commands like ` \textbf{bold text} ` receive an argument in
curly braces and only affect that argument. Other commands such as ` \bfseries
bold text ` act as switches (LaTeX calls this a declaration), altering the
appearance of all subsequent content within the document or current scope.

In Typst, the same function can be used both to affect the appearance for the
remainder of the document, a block (or scope), or just its arguments. For
example, ` #  text  (  weight  :  "bold"  )  [  bold text  ]  ` will only
embolden its argument, while ` #  set  text  (  weight  :  "bold"  )  ` will
embolden any text until the end of the current block, or, if there is none,
document. The effects of a function are immediately obvious based on whether
it is used in a call or a [ set rule. ](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules)

    
    
    I am starting out with small text.
    
    #set text(14pt)
    
    This is a bit #text(18pt)[larger,]
    don't you think?
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/aX-wYquEk7ekHdAWcGZ3-wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Set rules may appear anywhere in the document. They can be thought of as
default argument values of their respective function:

    
    
    #set enum(numbering: "I.")
    
    Good results can only be obtained by
    + following best practices
    + being aware of current results
      of other researchers
    + checking the data for biases
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/FTzkApPthDlHdofpWCjnfwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The ` + ` is syntactic sugar (think of it as an abbreviation) for a call to
the [ ` enum ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/) function, to which we apply a
set rule above. [ Most syntax is linked to a function in this way.
](/docs/reference/syntax/) If you need to style an element beyond what its
arguments enable, you can completely redefine its appearance with a [ show
rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) (somewhat comparable to `
\renewcommand ` ).

You can achieve the effects of LaTeX commands like ` \textbf ` , ` \textsf ` ,
` \rmfamily ` , ` \mdseries ` , and ` \itshape ` with the [ ` font `
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-font) , [ ` style `
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-style) , and [ ` weight `
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-weight) arguments of the ` text `
function. The text function can be used in a set rule (declaration style) or
with a content argument. To replace ` \textsc ` , you can use the [ `
smallcaps ` ](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/ "`smallcaps`") function, which
renders its content argument as smallcaps. Should you want to use it
declaration style (like ` \scshape ` ), you can use an [ _everything_ show
rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) that applies the function to the
rest of the scope:

    
    
    #show: smallcaps
    
    Boisterous Accusations
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uKURZLdKdC2JssMYxVk2sQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  How do I load a document class?

In LaTeX, you start your main ` .tex ` file with the ` \documentclass{article}
` command to define how your document is supposed to look. In that command,
you may have replaced ` article ` with another value such as ` report ` and `
amsart ` to select a different look.

When using Typst, you style your documents with [ functions
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) . Typically, you use a template that
provides a function that styles your whole document. First, you import the
function from a template file. Then, you apply it to your whole document. This
is accomplished with a [ show rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) that
wraps the following document in a given function. The following example
illustrates how it works:

    
    
    #import "conf.typ": conf
    #show: conf.with(
      title: [
        Towards Improved Modelling
      ],
      authors: (
        (
          name: "Theresa Tungsten",
          affiliation: "Artos Institute",
          email: "tung@artos.edu",
        ),
        (
          name: "Eugene Deklan",
          affiliation: "Honduras State",
          email: "e.deklan@hstate.hn",
        ),
      ),
      abstract: lorem(80),
    )
    
    Let's get started writing this
    article by putting insightful
    paragraphs right here!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/k47Rrbrcbzmkzl-uxGd1cAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The [ ` import  ` ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) statement makes [
functions ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) (and other definitions)
from another file available. In this example, it imports the ` conf ` function
from the ` conf.typ ` file. This function formats a document as a conference
article. We use a show rule to apply it to the document and also configure
some metadata of the article. After applying the show rule, we can start
writing our article right away!

You can also use templates from Typst Universe (which is Typst's equivalent of
CTAN) using an import statement like this: ` #  import
"@preview/elsearticle:0.2.1"  :  elsearticle ` . Check the documentation of an
individual template to learn the name of its template function. Templates and
packages from Typst Universe are automatically downloaded when you first use
them.

In the web app, you can choose to create a project from a template on Typst
Universe or even create your own using the template wizard. Locally, you can
use the ` typst init ` CLI to create a new project from a template. Check out
[ the list of templates ](https://typst.app/universe/search/?kind=templates)
published on Typst Universe. You can also take a look at the [ ` awesome-typst
` repository ](https://github.com/qjcg/awesome-typst) to find community
templates that aren't available through Universe.

You can also [ create your own, custom templates. ](/docs/tutorial/making-a-
template/) They are shorter and more readable than the corresponding LaTeX `
.sty ` files by orders of magnitude, so give it a try!

Functions are Typst's "commands" and can transform their arguments to an
output value, including document _content._ Functions are "pure", which means
that they cannot have any effects beyond creating an output value / output
content. This is in stark contrast to LaTeX macros that can have arbitrary
effects on your document.

To let a function style your whole document, the show rule processes
everything that comes after it and calls the function specified after the
colon with the result as an argument. The ` .with ` part is a _method_ that
takes the ` conf ` function and pre-configures some if its arguments before
passing it on to the show rule.

##  How do I load packages?

Typst is "batteries included," so the equivalent of many popular LaTeX
packages is built right-in. Below, we compiled a table with frequently loaded
packages and their corresponding Typst functions.

LaTeX Package  |  Typst Alternative   
---|---  
graphicx, svg  |  [ ` image ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "`image`") function   
tabularx  |  [ ` table ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/ "`table`") , [ ` grid ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/ "`grid`") functions   
fontenc, inputenc, unicode-math  |  Just start writing!   
babel, polyglossia  |  [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) function: ` #  set  text  (  lang  :  "zh"  )  `  
amsmath  |  [ Math mode ](/docs/reference/math/)  
amsfonts, amssymb  |  [ ` sym ` ](/docs/reference/symbols/) module and [ syntax ](/docs/reference/syntax/#math)  
geometry, fancyhdr  |  [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/ "`page`") function   
xcolor  |  [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-fill) function: ` #  set  text  (  fill  :  rgb  (  "#0178A4"  )  )  `  
hyperref  |  [ ` link ` ](/docs/reference/model/link/ "`link`") function   
bibtex, biblatex, natbib  |  [ ` cite ` ](/docs/reference/model/cite/ "`cite`") , [ ` bibliography ` ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/ "`bibliography`") functions   
lstlisting, minted  |  [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") function and syntax   
parskip  |  [ ` block ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-spacing) and [ ` par ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-first-line-indent) functions   
csquotes  |  Set the [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) language and type ` " ` or ` ' `  
caption  |  [ ` figure ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/ "`figure`") function   
enumitem  |  [ ` list ` ](/docs/reference/model/list/ "`list`") , [ ` enum ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/ "`enum`") , [ ` terms ` ](/docs/reference/model/terms/ "`terms`") functions   
  
Although _many_ things are built-in, not everything can be. That's why Typst
has its own [ package ecosystem ](https://typst.app/universe/) where the
community share its creations and automations. Let's take, for instance, the
_cetz_ package: This package allows you to create complex drawings and plots.
To use cetz in your document, you can just write:

    
    
    #import "@preview/cetz:0.2.1"
    

(The ` @preview ` is a _namespace_ that is used while the package manager is
still in its early and experimental state. It will be replaced in the future.)

Aside from the official package hub, you might also want to check out the [
awesome-typst repository ](https://github.com/qjcg/awesome-typst) , which
compiles a curated list of resources created for Typst.

If you need to load functions and variables from another file within your
project, for example to use a template, you can use the same [ ` import `
](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) statement with a file name rather than a
package specification. To instead include the textual content of another file,
you can use an [ ` include ` ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) statement.
It will retrieve the content of the specified file and put it in your
document.

##  How do I input maths?

To enter math mode in Typst, just enclose your equation in dollar signs. You
can enter display mode by adding spaces or newlines between the equation's
contents and its enclosing dollar signs.

    
    
    The sum of the numbers from
    $1$ to $n$ is:
    
    $ sum_(k=1)^n k = (n(n+1))/2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_cQQzHlyveS6_BoZXnzzQQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ Math mode ](/docs/reference/math/) works differently than regular markup or
code mode. Numbers and single characters are displayed verbatim, while
multiple consecutive (non-number) characters will be interpreted as Typst
variables.

Typst pre-defines a lot of useful variables in math mode. All Greek ( ` alpha
` , ` beta ` , ...) and some Hebrew letters ( ` alef ` , ` bet ` , ...) are
available through their name. Some symbols are additionally available through
shorthands, such as ` <= ` , ` >= ` , and ` -> ` .

Refer to the [ symbol pages ](/docs/reference/symbols/) for a full list of the
symbols. If a symbol is missing, you can also access it through a [ Unicode
escape sequence ](/docs/reference/syntax/#escapes) .

Alternate and related forms of symbols can often be selected by [ appending a
modifier ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) after a period. For example, `
arrow.l.squiggly ` inserts a squiggly left-pointing arrow. If you want to
insert multiletter text in your expression instead, enclose it in double
quotes:

    
    
    $ delta "if" x <= 5 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/jk1sG5lCs-ZQ-s2nXNTbTwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In Typst, delimiters will scale automatically for their expressions, just as
if ` \left ` and ` \right ` commands were implicitly inserted in LaTeX. You
can customize delimiter behaviour using the [ ` lr ` function
](/docs/reference/math/lr/#functions-lr) . To prevent a pair of delimiters
from scaling, you can escape them with backslashes.

Typst will automatically set terms around a slash ` / ` as a fraction while
honoring operator precedence. All round parentheses not made redundant by the
fraction will appear in the output.

    
    
    $ f(x) = (x + 1) / x $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hWpFm1Wb3In32sS_SEIHvgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ Sub- and superscripts ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-attach) work
similarly in Typst and LaTeX. ` $  x  ^  2  $  ` will produce a superscript, `
$  x  _  2  $  ` yields a subscript. If you want to include more than one
value in a sub- or superscript, enclose their contents in parentheses: ` $  x
_  (  a  -> epsilon  )  $  ` .

Since variables in math mode do not need to be prepended with a ` # ` or a ` /
` , you can also call functions without these special characters:

    
    
    $ f(x, y) := cases(
      1 "if" (x dot y)/2 <= 0,
      2 "if" x "is even",
      3 "if" x in NN,
      4 "else",
    ) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0X1AFPDieBd9jiawKpc0-AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The above example uses the [ ` cases ` function ](/docs/reference/math/cases/)
to describe f. Within the cases function, arguments are delimited using commas
and the arguments are also interpreted as math. If you need to interpret
arguments as Typst values instead, prefix them with a ` # ` :

    
    
    $ (a + b)^2
      = a^2
      + text(fill: #maroon, 2 a b)
      + b^2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Wmx0wcFeGyknnvRFv8bI5QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can use all Typst functions within math mode and insert any content. If
you want them to work normally, with code mode in the argument list, you can
prefix their call with a ` # ` . Nobody can stop you from using rectangles or
emoji as your variables anymore:

    
    
    $ sum^10_(ð¥¸=1)
      #rect(width: 4mm, height: 2mm)/ð¥¸
      = ð§  maltese $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/aSVPcEv5ICbnBtcXfhpmfgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If you'd like to enter your mathematical symbols directly as Unicode, that is
possible, too!

Math calls can have two-dimensional argument lists using ` ; ` as a delimiter.
The most common use for this is the [ ` mat ` function
](/docs/reference/math/mat/) that creates matrices:

    
    
    $ mat(
      1, 2, ..., 10;
      2, 2, ..., 10;
      dots.v, dots.v, dots.down, dots.v;
      10, 10, ..., 10;
    ) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yiSilYGQ1wRBpIK3ON349AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  How do I get the "LaTeX look?"

Papers set in LaTeX have an unmistakeable look. This is mostly due to their
font, Computer Modern, justification, narrow line spacing, and wide margins.

The example below

  * sets wide [ margins ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-margin)
  * enables [ justification ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-justify) , [ tighter lines ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) and [ first-line-indent ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-first-line-indent)
  * [ sets the font ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-font) to "New Computer Modern", an OpenType derivative of Computer Modern for both text and [ code blocks ](/docs/reference/text/raw/)
  * disables paragraph [ spacing ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-spacing)
  * increases [ spacing ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-spacing) around [ headings ](/docs/reference/model/heading/)

    
    
    #set page(margin: 1.75in)
    #set par(leading: 0.55em, spacing: 0.55em, first-line-indent: 1.8em, justify: true)
    #set text(font: "New Computer Modern")
    #show raw: set text(font: "New Computer Modern Mono")
    #show heading: set block(above: 1.4em, below: 1em)
    

This should be a good starting point! If you want to go further, why not
create a reusable template?

##  Bibliographies

Typst includes a fully-featured bibliography system that is compatible with
BibTeX files. You can continue to use your ` .bib ` literature libraries by
loading them with the [ ` bibliography ` ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/
"`bibliography`") function. Another possibility is to use [ Typst's YAML-based
native format ](https://github.com/typst/hayagriva/blob/main/docs/file-
format.md) .

Typst uses the Citation Style Language to define and process citation and
bibliography styles. You can compare CSL files to BibLaTeX's ` .bbx ` files.
The compiler already includes [ over 80 citation styles
](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/#parameters-style) , but you can use any
CSL-compliant style from the [ CSL repository ](https://github.com/citation-
style-language/styles) or write your own.

You can cite an entry in your bibliography or reference a label in your
document with the same syntax: ` @key  ` (this would reference an entry called
` key ` ). Alternatively, you can use the [ ` cite `
](/docs/reference/model/cite/ "`cite`") function.

Alternative forms for your citation, such as year only and citations for
natural use in prose (cf. ` \citet ` and ` \textcite ` ) are available with [
` #  cite  (  <key> ,  form  :  "prose"  )  `
](/docs/reference/model/cite/#parameters-form) .

You can find more information on the documentation page of the [ `
bibliography ` ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/ "`bibliography`")
function.

##  What limitations does Typst currently have compared to LaTeX?

Although Typst can be a LaTeX replacement for many today, there are still
features that Typst does not (yet) support. Here is a list of them which,
where applicable, contains possible workarounds.

  * **Well-established plotting ecosystem.** LaTeX users often create elaborate charts along with their documents in PGF/TikZ. The Typst ecosystem does not yet offer the same breadth of available options, but the ecosystem around the [ ` cetz ` ](https://github.com/cetz-package/cetz) package is catching up quickly. 

  * **Change page margins without a pagebreak.** In LaTeX, margins can always be adjusted, even without a pagebreak. To change margins in Typst, you use the [ ` page ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) which will force a page break. If you just want a few paragraphs to stretch into the margins, then reverting to the old margins, you can use the [ ` pad ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/pad/) with negative padding. 

  * **Include PDFs as images.** In LaTeX, it has become customary to insert vector graphics as PDF or EPS files. Typst supports neither format as an image format, but you can easily convert both into SVG files with [ online tools ](https://cloudconvert.com/pdf-to-svg) or [ Inkscape ](https://inkscape.org/) . The web app will automatically convert PDF files to SVG files upon uploading them. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Guides  Previous page
](/docs/guides/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Page setup guide
Next page  ](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/)



# **docs/reference/text.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)

#  Text

Text styling.

The [ text function ](/docs/reference/text/text/) is of particular interest.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` highlight ` ](/docs/reference/text/highlight/) Highlights text with a background color. 
  * [ ` linebreak ` ](/docs/reference/text/linebreak/) Inserts a line break. 
  * [ ` lorem ` ](/docs/reference/text/lorem/) Creates blind text. 
  * [ ` lower ` ](/docs/reference/text/lower/) Converts a string or content to lowercase. 
  * [ ` overline ` ](/docs/reference/text/overline/) Adds a line over text. 
  * [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/) Raw text with optional syntax highlighting. 
  * [ ` smallcaps ` ](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/) Displays text in small capitals. 
  * [ ` smartquote ` ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/) A language-aware quote that reacts to its context. 
  * [ ` strike ` ](/docs/reference/text/strike/) Strikes through text. 
  * [ ` sub ` ](/docs/reference/text/sub/) Renders text in subscript. 
  * [ ` super ` ](/docs/reference/text/super/) Renders text in superscript. 
  * [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/) Customizes the look and layout of text in a variety of ways. 
  * [ ` underline ` ](/docs/reference/text/underline/) Underlines text. 
  * [ ` upper ` ](/docs/reference/text/upper/) Converts a string or content to uppercase. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Term List  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/terms/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Highlight  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/highlight/)



# **docs/reference/introspection.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)

#  Introspection

Interactions between document parts.

This category is home to Typst's introspection capabilities: With the `
counter ` function, you can access and manipulate page, section, figure, and
equation counters or create custom ones. Meanwhile, the ` query ` function
lets you search for elements in the document to construct things like a list
of figures or headers which show the current chapter title.

Most of the functions are _contextual._ It is recommended to read the chapter
on [ context ](/docs/reference/context/ "context") before continuing here.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` counter ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) Counts through pages, elements, and more. 
  * [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/) Provides the current location in the document. 
  * [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/) Determines the location of an element in the document. 
  * [ ` location ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) Identifies an element in the document. 
  * [ ` metadata ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/metadata/) Exposes a value to the query system without producing visible content. 
  * [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/) Finds elements in the document. 
  * [ ` state ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/) Manages stateful parts of your document. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Stroke  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Counter  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/)



# **docs/reference/syntax.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Syntax ](/docs/reference/syntax/)

#  Syntax

Typst is a markup language. This means that you can use simple syntax to
accomplish common layout tasks. The lightweight markup syntax is complemented
by set and show rules, which let you style your document easily and
automatically. All this is backed by a tightly integrated scripting language
with built-in and user-defined functions.

##  Modes

Typst has three syntactical modes: Markup, math, and code. Markup mode is the
default in a Typst document, math mode lets you write mathematical formulas,
and code mode lets you use Typst's scripting features.

You can switch to a specific mode at any point by referring to the following
table:

New mode  |  Syntax  |  Example   
---|---|---  
Code  |  Prefix the code with ` # ` |  ` Number:  #  (  1  +  2  )  `  
Math  |  Surround equation with ` $  ..  $  ` |  ` $  -  x  $  is the opposite of  $  x  $  `  
Markup  |  Surround markup with ` [..] ` |  ` let  name  =  [  *Typst!*  ]  `  
  
Once you have entered code mode with ` # ` , you don't need to use further
hashes unless you switched back to markup or math mode in between.

##  Markup

Typst provides built-in markup for the most common document elements. Most of
the syntax elements are just shortcuts for a corresponding function. The table
below lists all markup that is available and links to the best place to learn
more about their syntax and usage.

Name  |  Example  |  See   
---|---|---  
Paragraph break  |  Blank line  |  [ ` parbreak ` ](/docs/reference/model/parbreak/ "`parbreak`")  
Strong emphasis  |  ` *strong*  ` |  [ ` strong ` ](/docs/reference/model/strong/ "`strong`")  
Emphasis  |  ` _emphasis_  ` |  [ ` emph ` ](/docs/reference/model/emph/ "`emph`")  
Raw text  |  ` `print(1)`  ` |  [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`")  
Link  |  ` https://typst.app/  ` |  [ ` link ` ](/docs/reference/model/link/ "`link`")  
Label  |  ` <intro> ` |  [ ` label ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "`label`")  
Reference  |  ` @intro  ` |  [ ` ref ` ](/docs/reference/model/ref/ "`ref`")  
Heading  |  ` = Heading  ` |  [ ` heading ` ](/docs/reference/model/heading/ "`heading`")  
Bullet list  |  ` -  item ` |  [ ` list ` ](/docs/reference/model/list/ "`list`")  
Numbered list  |  ` +  item ` |  [ ` enum ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/ "`enum`")  
Term list  |  ` /  Term  :  description ` |  [ ` terms ` ](/docs/reference/model/terms/ "`terms`")  
Math  |  ` $  x  ^  2  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Line break  |  ` \  ` |  [ ` linebreak ` ](/docs/reference/text/linebreak/ "`linebreak`")  
Smart quote  |  ` 'single' or "double" ` |  [ ` smartquote ` ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/ "`smartquote`")  
Symbol shorthand  |  ` ~  ` , ` ---  ` |  [ Symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)  
Code expression  |  ` #  rect  (  width  :  1cm  )  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#expressions)  
Character escape  |  ` Tweet at us  \#  ad ` |  Below   
Comment  |  ` /* block */  ` , ` // line  ` |  Below   
  
##  Math mode

Math mode is a special markup mode that is used to typeset mathematical
formulas. It is entered by wrapping an equation in ` $ ` characters. This
works both in markup and code. The equation will be typeset into its own block
if it starts and ends with at least one space (e.g. ` $  x  ^  2  $  ` ).
Inline math can be produced by omitting the whitespace (e.g. ` $  x  ^  2  $
` ). An overview over the syntax specific to math mode follows:

Name  |  Example  |  See   
---|---|---  
Inline math  |  ` $  x  ^  2  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Block-level math  |  ` $  x  ^  2  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Bottom attachment  |  ` $  x  _  1  $  ` |  [ ` attach ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/)  
Top attachment  |  ` $  x  ^  2  $  ` |  [ ` attach ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/)  
Fraction  |  ` $  1 +  (  a+b  )  /  5  $  ` |  [ ` frac ` ](/docs/reference/math/frac/)  
Line break  |  ` $  x  \  y  $  ` |  [ ` linebreak ` ](/docs/reference/text/linebreak/ "`linebreak`")  
Alignment point  |  ` $  x  & = 2  \  & = 3  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Variable access  |  ` $  #  x  $  ,  $  pi  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Field access  |  ` $  arrow  .  r  .  long  $  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields)  
Implied multiplication  |  ` $  x y  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Symbol shorthand  |  ` $  -> $  ` , ` $  !=  $  ` |  [ Symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)  
Text/string in math  |  ` $  a  "is natural"  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Math function call  |  ` $  floor  (  x  )  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Code expression  |  ` $  #  rect  (  width  :  1cm  )  $  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#expressions)  
Character escape  |  ` $  x  \^  2  $  ` |  Below   
Comment  |  ` $  /* comment */  $  ` |  Below   
  
##  Code mode

Within code blocks and expressions, new expressions can start without a
leading ` # ` character. Many syntactic elements are specific to expressions.
Below is a table listing all syntax that is available in code mode:

Name  |  Example  |  See   
---|---|---  
None  |  ` none  ` |  [ ` none ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/ "`none`")  
Auto  |  ` auto  ` |  [ ` auto ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/ "`auto`")  
Boolean  |  ` false  ` , ` true  ` |  [ ` bool ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/ "`bool`")  
Integer  |  ` 10  ` , ` 0xff  ` |  [ ` int ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/ "`int`")  
Floating-point number  |  ` 3.14  ` , ` 1e5  ` |  [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`")  
Length  |  ` 2pt  ` , ` 3mm  ` , ` 1em  ` , ..  |  [ ` length ` ](/docs/reference/layout/length/ "`length`")  
Angle  |  ` 90deg  ` , ` 1rad  ` |  [ ` angle ` ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/ "`angle`")  
Fraction  |  ` 2fr  ` |  [ ` fraction ` ](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/ "`fraction`")  
Ratio  |  ` 50%  ` |  [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`")  
String  |  ` "hello"  ` |  [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/ "`str`")  
Label  |  ` <intro> ` |  [ ` label ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "`label`")  
Math  |  ` $  x  ^  2  $  ` |  [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)  
Raw text  |  ` `print(1)`  ` |  [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`")  
Variable access  |  ` x ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks)  
Code block  |  ` {  let  x  =  1  ;  x  +  2  }  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks)  
Content block  |  ` [  *Hello*  ]  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks)  
Parenthesized expression  |  ` (  1  +  2  )  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks)  
Array  |  ` (  1  ,  2  ,  3  )  ` |  [ Array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)  
Dictionary  |  ` (  a  :  "hi"  ,  b  :  2  )  ` |  [ Dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)  
Unary operator  |  ` -  x ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#operators)  
Binary operator  |  ` x  +  y ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#operators)  
Assignment  |  ` x  =  1  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#operators)  
Field access  |  ` x  .  y ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields)  
Method call  |  ` x  .  flatten  (  )  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#methods)  
Function call  |  ` min  (  x  ,  y  )  ` |  [ Function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)  
Argument spreading  |  ` min  (  ..  nums  )  ` |  [ Arguments ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/)  
Unnamed function  |  ` (  x  ,  y  )  => x  +  y ` |  [ Function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)  
Let binding  |  ` let  x  =  1  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings)  
Named function  |  ` let  f  (  x  )  =  2  *  x ` |  [ Function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)  
Set rule  |  ` set  text  (  14pt  )  ` |  [ Styling ](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules)  
Set-if rule  |  ` set  text  (  ..  )  if  .. ` |  [ Styling ](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules)  
Show-set rule  |  ` show  heading  :  set  block  (  ..  )  ` |  [ Styling ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules)  
Show rule with function  |  ` show  raw  :  it  => {  ..  }  ` |  [ Styling ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules)  
Show-everything rule  |  ` show  :  template  ` |  [ Styling ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules)  
Context expression  |  ` context  text  .  lang ` |  [ Context ](/docs/reference/context/)  
Conditional  |  ` if  x  ==  1  {  ..  }  else  {  ..  }  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#conditionals)  
For loop  |  ` for  x  in  (  1  ,  2  ,  3  )  {  ..  }  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops)  
While loop  |  ` while  x  < 10  {  ..  }  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops)  
Loop control flow  |  ` break  ,  continue  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops)  
Return from function  |  ` return  x ` |  [ Function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)  
Include module  |  ` include  "bar.typ"  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules)  
Import module  |  ` import  "bar.typ"  ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules)  
Import items from module  |  ` import  "bar.typ"  :  a  ,  b  ,  c ` |  [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules)  
Comment  |  ` /* block */  ` , ` // line  ` |  Below   
  
##  Comments

Comments are ignored by Typst and will not be included in the output. This is
useful to exclude old versions or to add annotations. To comment out a single
line, start it with ` // ` :

    
    
    // our data barely supports
    // this claim
    
    We show with $p < 0.05$
    that the difference is
    significant.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qmPJyf2DgB8m9bpdDccxUQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Comments can also be wrapped between ` /* ` and ` */ ` . In this case, the
comment can span over multiple lines:

    
    
    Our study design is as follows:
    /* Somebody write this up:
       - 1000 participants.
       - 2x2 data design. */
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0bd3Pt_MGVIAagJ8npuMMAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Escape sequences

Escape sequences are used to insert special characters that are hard to type
or otherwise have special meaning in Typst. To escape a character, precede it
with a backslash. To insert any Unicode codepoint, you can write a hexadecimal
escape sequence: ` \u{1f600}  ` . The same kind of escape sequences also work
in [ strings ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) .

    
    
    I got an ice cream for
    \$1.50! \u{1f600}
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/2Hq1wVq0JUPd4EarGtBZUQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Paths

Typst has various features that require a file path to reference external
resources such as images, Typst files, or data files. Paths are represented as
[ strings ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) . There are two kinds of paths:
Relative and absolute.

  * A **relative path** searches from the location of the Typst file where the feature is invoked. It is the default: 
    
        #image("images/logo.png")
    

  * An **absolute path** searches from the _root_ of the project. It starts with a leading ` / ` : 
    
        #image("/assets/logo.png")
    

###  Project root

By default, the project root is the parent directory of the main Typst file.
For security reasons, you cannot read any files outside of the root directory.

If you want to set a specific folder as the root of your project, you can use
the CLI's ` --root ` flag. Make sure that the main file is contained in the
folder's subtree!

    
    
    typst compile --root .. file.typ
    

In the web app, the project itself is the root directory. You can always read
all files within it, no matter which one is previewed (via the eye toggle next
to each Typst file in the file panel).

###  Paths and packages

A package can only load files from its own directory. Within it, absolute
paths point to the package root, rather than the project root. For this
reason, it cannot directly load files from the project directory. If a package
needs resources from the project (such as a logo image), you must pass the
already loaded image, e.g. as a named parameter ` logo:  image  (
"mylogo.svg"  )  ` . Note that you can then still customize the image's
appearance with a set rule within the package.

In the future, paths might become a [ distinct type from strings
](https://github.com/typst/typst/issues/971) , so that they can retain
knowledge of where they were constructed. This way, resources could be loaded
from a different root.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Reference  Previous page
](/docs/reference/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Styling  Next
page  ](/docs/reference/styling/)



# **docs/reference/model.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)

#  Model

Document structuring.

Here, you can find functions to structure your document and interact with that
structure. This includes section headings, figures, bibliography management,
cross-referencing and more.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` bibliography ` ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/) A bibliography / reference listing. 
  * [ ` cite ` ](/docs/reference/model/cite/) Cite a work from the bibliography. 
  * [ ` document ` ](/docs/reference/model/document/) The root element of a document and its metadata. 
  * [ ` emph ` ](/docs/reference/model/emph/) Emphasizes content by toggling italics. 
  * [ ` enum ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/) A numbered list. 
  * [ ` figure ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/) A figure with an optional caption. 
  * [ ` footnote ` ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/) A footnote. 
  * [ ` heading ` ](/docs/reference/model/heading/) A section heading. 
  * [ ` link ` ](/docs/reference/model/link/) Links to a URL or a location in the document. 
  * [ ` list ` ](/docs/reference/model/list/) A bullet list. 
  * [ ` numbering ` ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) Applies a numbering to a sequence of numbers. 
  * [ ` outline ` ](/docs/reference/model/outline/) A table of contents, figures, or other elements. 
  * [ ` par ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/) Arranges text, spacing and inline-level elements into a paragraph. 
  * [ ` parbreak ` ](/docs/reference/model/parbreak/) A paragraph break. 
  * [ ` quote ` ](/docs/reference/model/quote/) Displays a quote alongside an optional attribution. 
  * [ ` ref ` ](/docs/reference/model/ref/) A reference to a label or bibliography. 
  * [ ` strong ` ](/docs/reference/model/strong/) Strongly emphasizes content by increasing the font weight. 
  * [ ` table ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/) A table of items. 
  * [ ` terms ` ](/docs/reference/model/terms/) A list of terms and their descriptions. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Version  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/version/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Bibliography  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/)



# **docs/reference/context.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Context ](/docs/reference/context/)

#  Context

Sometimes, we want to create content that reacts to its location in the
document. This could be a localized phrase that depends on the configured text
language or something as simple as a heading number which prints the right
value based on how many headings came before it. However, Typst code isn't
directly aware of its location in the document. Some code at the beginning of
the source text could yield content that ends up at the back of the document.

To produce content that is reactive to its surroundings, we must thus
specifically instruct Typst: We do this with the ` context  ` keyword, which
precedes an expression and ensures that it is computed with knowledge of its
environment. In return, the context expression itself ends up opaque. We
cannot directly access whatever results from it in our code, precisely because
it is contextual: There is no one correct result, there may be multiple
results in different places of the document. For this reason, everything that
depends on the contextual data must happen inside of the context expression.

Aside from explicit context expressions, context is also established
implicitly in some places that are also aware of their location in the
document: [ Show rules ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) provide context
1  and numberings in the outline, for instance, also provide the proper
context to resolve counters.

##  Style context

With set rules, we can adjust style properties for parts or the whole of our
document. We cannot access these without a known context, as they may change
throughout the course of the document. When context is available, we can
retrieve them simply by accessing them as fields on the respective element
function.

    
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    #context text.lang
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ETetUaSK2J1pHpdRRUWzagAAAAAAAAAA.png)

As explained above, a context expression is reactive to the different
environments it is placed into. In the example below, we create a single
context expression, store it in the ` value ` variable and use it multiple
times. Each use properly reacts to the current surroundings.

    
    
    #let value = context text.lang
    #value
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    #value
    
    #set text(lang: "fr")
    #value
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/cUJma0l-7W2Pm0tXEKJmjAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Crucially, upon creation, ` value ` becomes opaque [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/ "content") that we cannot peek into. It
can only be resolved when placed somewhere because only then the context is
known. The body of a context expression may be evaluated zero, one, or
multiple times, depending on how many different places it is put into.

##  Location context

We've already seen that context gives us access to set rule values. But it can
do more: It also lets us know _where_ in the document we currently are,
relative to other elements, and absolutely on the pages. We can use this
information to create very flexible interactions between different document
parts. This underpins features like heading numbering, the table of contents,
or page headers dependent on section headings.

Some functions like [ ` counter.get `
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-get) implicitly access
the current location. In the example below, we want to retrieve the value of
the heading counter. Since it changes throughout the document, we need to
first enter a context expression. Then, we use ` get ` to retrieve the
counter's current value. This function accesses the current location from the
context to resolve the counter value. Counters have multiple levels and ` get
` returns an array with the resolved numbers. Thus, we get the following
result:

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(5)
    
    #context counter(heading).get()
    
    = Background
    #lorem(5)
    
    #context counter(heading).get()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bQONUXVpXWNuuUEOrLszpQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

For more flexibility, we can also use the [ ` here `
](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") function to directly extract
the current [ location ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/ "location")
from the context. The example below demonstrates this:

  * We first have ` counter  (  heading  )  .  get  (  )  ` , which resolves to ` (  2  ,  )  ` as before. 
  * We then use the more powerful [ ` counter.at ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-at "`counter.at`") with [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") , which in combination is equivalent to ` get ` , and thus get ` (  2  ,  )  ` . 
  * Finally, we use ` at ` with a [ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "label") to retrieve the value of the counter at a _different_ location in the document, in our case that of the introduction heading. This yields ` (  1  ,  )  ` . Typst's context system gives us time travel abilities and lets us retrieve the values of any counters and states at _any_ location in the document. 

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    #lorem(5)
    
    = Background <back>
    #lorem(5)
    
    #context [
      #counter(heading).get() \
      #counter(heading).at(here()) \
      #counter(heading).at(<intro>)
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gip9ugheiaYydjAEj2_jbgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

As mentioned before, we can also use context to get the physical position of
elements on the pages. We do this with the [ ` locate `
](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`") function, which works
similarly to ` counter.at ` : It takes a location or other [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/ "selector") that resolves to a unique
element (could also be a label) and returns the position on the pages for that
element.

    
    
    Background is at: \
    #context locate(<back>).position()
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    #lorem(5)
    #pagebreak()
    
    = Background <back>
    #lorem(5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/AV1GaGSFxqcGN8RTlxty3gAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/AV1GaGSFxqcGN8RTlxty3gAAAAAAAAAB.png)

There are other functions that make use of the location context, most
prominently [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") .
Take a look at the [ introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/) category
for more details on those.

##  Nested contexts

Context is also accessible from within function calls nested in context
blocks. In the example below, ` foo ` itself becomes a contextual function,
just like [ ` to-absolute ` ](/docs/reference/layout/length/#definitions-to-
absolute) is.

    
    
    #let foo() = 1em.to-absolute()
    #context {
      foo() == text.size
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tBYLufutRlRl2ZJ_PAm-owAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Context blocks can be nested. Contextual code will then always access the
innermost context. The example below demonstrates this: The first ` text.lang
` will access the outer context block's styles and as such, it will **not**
see the effect of ` set  text  (  lang  :  "fr"  )  ` . The nested context
block around the second ` text.lang ` , however, starts after the set rule and
will thus show its effect.

    
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    #context [
      #set text(lang: "fr")
      #text.lang \
      #context text.lang
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/-8ZHuN0AkDNg1gXmAO7X2wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You might wonder why Typst ignores the French set rule when computing the
first ` text.lang ` in the example above. The reason is that, in the general
case, Typst cannot know all the styles that will apply as set rules can be
applied to content after it has been constructed. Below, ` text.lang ` is
already computed when the template function is applied. As such, it cannot
possibly be aware of the language change to French in the template.

    
    
    #let template(body) = {
      set text(lang: "fr")
      upper(body)
    }
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    #context [
      #show: template
      #text.lang \
      #context text.lang
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ptMaFdqycQGV8lm06g29-gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The second ` text.lang ` , however, _does_ react to the language change
because evaluation of its surrounding context block is deferred until the
styles for it are known. This illustrates the importance of picking the right
insertion point for a context to get access to precisely the right styles.

The same also holds true for the location context. Below, the first ` c  .
display  (  )  ` call will access the outer context block and will thus not
see the effect of ` c  .  update  (  2  )  ` while the second ` c  .  display
(  )  ` accesses the inner context and will thus see it.

    
    
    #let c = counter("mycounter")
    #c.update(1)
    #context [
      #c.update(2)
      #c.display() \
      #context c.display()
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6mlAfSm7646viO4S8ua6gwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Compiler iterations

To resolve contextual interactions, the Typst compiler processes your document
multiple times. For instance, to resolve a ` locate ` call, Typst first
provides a placeholder position, layouts your document and then recompiles
with the known position from the finished layout. The same approach is taken
to resolve counters, states, and queries. In certain cases, Typst may even
need more than two iterations to resolve everything. While that's sometimes a
necessity, it may also be a sign of misuse of contextual functions (e.g. of [
state ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#caution) ). If Typst cannot
resolve everything within five attempts, it will stop and output the warning
"layout did not converge within 5 attempts."

A very careful reader might have noticed that not all of the functions
presented above actually make use of the current location. While ` counter  (
heading  )  .  get  (  )  ` definitely depends on it, ` counter  (  heading  )
.  at  (  <intro> )  ` , for instance, does not. However, it still requires
context. While its value is always the same _within_ one compilation
iteration, it may change over the course of multiple compiler iterations. If
one could call it directly at the top level of a module, the whole module and
its exports could change over the course of multiple compiler iterations,
which would not be desirable.

1

Currently, all show rules provide styling context, but only show rules on [
locatable ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#locatable) elements
provide a location context.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Scripting  Previous page
](/docs/reference/scripting/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Foundations  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/)



# **docs/reference/symbols.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/)

#  Symbols

These two modules give names to symbols and emoji to make them easy to insert
with a normal keyboard. Alternatively, you can also always directly enter
Unicode symbols into your text and formulas. In addition to the symbols listed
below, math mode defines ` dif ` and ` Dif ` . These are not normal symbol
values because they also affect spacing and font style.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` sym ` ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/) These two modules give names to symbols and emoji to make them easy to 
  * [ ` emoji ` ](/docs/reference/symbols/emoji/) These two modules give names to symbols and emoji to make them easy to 
  * [ ` symbol ` ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) A Unicode symbol. 

##  Shorthands

Shorthands are concise sequences of characters that evoke specific glyphs.
Shorthands and other ways to produce symbols can be used interchangeably. You
can use different sets of shorthands in math and markup mode. Some shorthands,
like ` ~ ` for a non-breaking space produce non-printing symbols, which are
indicated with gray placeholder text.

You can deactivate a shorthand's interpretation by escaping any of its
characters. If you escape a single character in a shorthand, the remaining
unescaped characters may form a different shorthand.

###  Within Markup Mode

  * nbsp  ` ~  `
  * â  ` --  `
  * â  ` ---  `
  * shy  ` -?  `
  * â¦  ` .  .  .  `
  * â  ` -  `

###

Name: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Escape:  ` \u  {  } ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Shorthand: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Accent:  ![](/assets/icons/16-close.svg)

LaTeX: ` `

* ###  Within Math Mode 

  * â¦  ` [|  `
  * â§  ` |]  `
  * â  ` ||  `
  * â  ` *  `
  * â  ` :=  `
  * â©´  ` ::=  `
  * â¦  ` .  .  .  `
  * â¼  ` ~  `
  * â²  ` '  `
  * â  ` -  `
  * â  ` =:  `
  * â  ` !=  `
  * â«  ` >> `
  * â¥  ` >=  `
  * â  ` >>> `
  * âª  ` << `
  * â¤  ` <=  `
  * â  ` <<< `
  * â  ` -> `
  * â¦  ` |-> `
  * â  ` => `
  * â¤  ` |=> `
  * â¹  ` ==> `
  * â¶  ` --> `
  * â¿  ` ~~> `
  * â  ` ~> `
  * â£  ` >-> `
  * â  ` ->> `
  * â  ` <-  `
  * â¸  ` <==  `
  * âµ  ` <--  `
  * â¬³  ` <~~  `
  * â  ` <~  `
  * â¢  ` <-< `
  * â  ` <<-  `
  * â  ` <-> `
  * â  ` <=> `
  * âº  ` <==> `
  * â·  ` <--> `

###

Name: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Escape:  ` \u  {  } ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Shorthand: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Accent:  ![](/assets/icons/16-close.svg)

LaTeX: ` `

* [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Vector  Previous page  ](/docs/reference/math/vec/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) General  Next page  ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)



# **docs/reference/foundations.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)

#  Foundations

Foundational types and functions.

Here, you'll find documentation for basic data types like [ integers
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) and [ strings
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) as well as details about core
computational functions.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` arguments ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/) Captured arguments to a function. 
  * [ ` array ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) A sequence of values. 
  * [ ` assert ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/) Ensures that a condition is fulfilled. 
  * [ ` auto ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) A value that indicates a smart default. 
  * [ ` bool ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) A type with two states. 
  * [ ` bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) A sequence of bytes. 
  * [ calc ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc) Module for calculations and processing of numeric values. 
  * [ ` content ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) A piece of document content. 
  * [ ` datetime ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/) Represents a date, a time, or a combination of both. 
  * [ ` decimal ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) A fixed-point decimal number type. 
  * [ ` dictionary ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) A map from string keys to values. 
  * [ ` duration ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/) Represents a positive or negative span of time. 
  * [ ` eval ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/eval/) Evaluates a string as Typst code. 
  * [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) A floating-point number. 
  * [ ` function ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) A mapping from argument values to a return value. 
  * [ ` int ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) A whole number. 
  * [ ` label ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) A label for an element. 
  * [ ` module ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/module/) An evaluated module, either built-in or resulting from a file. 
  * [ ` none ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) A value that indicates the absence of any other value. 
  * [ ` panic ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/panic/) Fails with an error. 
  * [ ` plugin ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/plugin/) A WebAssembly plugin. 
  * [ ` regex ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) A regular expression. 
  * [ ` repr ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/) Returns the string representation of a value. 
  * [ ` selector ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) A filter for selecting elements within the document. 
  * [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) A sequence of Unicode codepoints. 
  * [ ` style ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/style/) Provides access to active styles. 
  * [ sys ](/docs/reference/foundations/sys) Module for system interactions. 
  * [ ` type ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/) Describes a kind of value. 
  * [ ` version ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/version/) A version with an arbitrary number of components. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Context  Previous page
](/docs/reference/context/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Arguments  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/)



# **docs/reference/math.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)

#  Math

Typst has special [ syntax ](/docs/reference/syntax/#math) and library
functions to typeset mathematical formulas. Math formulas can be displayed
inline with text or as separate blocks. They will be typeset into their own
block if they start and end with at least one space (e.g. ` $  x  ^  2  $  `
).

##  Variables

In math, single letters are always displayed as is. Multiple letters, however,
are interpreted as variables and functions. To display multiple letters
verbatim, you can place them into quotes and to access single letter
variables, you can use the [ hash syntax
](/docs/reference/scripting/#expressions) .

    
    
    $ A = pi r^2 $
    $ "area" = pi dot "radius"^2 $
    $ cal(A) :=
        { x in RR | x "is natural" } $
    #let x = 5
    $ #x < 17 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hSTnanxnhN2cMLti2SpIlwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Symbols

Math mode makes a wide selection of [ symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)
like ` pi ` , ` dot ` , or ` RR ` available. Many mathematical symbols are
available in different variants. You can select between different variants by
applying [ modifiers ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) to the symbol. Typst
further recognizes a number of shorthand sequences like ` => ` that
approximate a symbol. When such a shorthand exists, the symbol's documentation
lists it.

    
    
    $ x < y => x gt.eq.not y $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3QjDlBq8e4sckxD76_cbbgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Line Breaks

Formulas can also contain line breaks. Each line can contain one or multiple
_alignment points_ ( ` & ` ) which are then aligned.

    
    
    $ sum_(k=0)^n k
        &= 1 + ... + n \
        &= (n(n+1)) / 2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4Y4RfouYZm3Jgju-7W3SZAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Function calls

Math mode supports special function calls without the hash prefix. In these
"math calls", the argument list works a little differently than in code:

  * Within them, Typst is still in "math mode". Thus, you can write math directly into them, but need to use hash syntax to pass code expressions (except for strings, which are available in the math syntax). 
  * They support positional and named arguments, but don't support trailing content blocks and argument spreading. 
  * They provide additional syntax for 2-dimensional argument lists. The semicolon ( ` ; ` ) merges preceding arguments separated by commas into an array argument. 

    
    
    $ frac(a^2, 2) $
    $ vec(1, 2, delim: "[") $
    $ mat(1, 2; 3, 4) $
    $ lim_x =
        op("lim", limits: #true)_x $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gWTBh8i7ZWskmajIpEpUWQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

To write a verbatim comma or semicolon in a math call, escape it with a
backslash. The colon on the other hand is only recognized in a special way if
directly preceded by an identifier, so to display it verbatim in those cases,
you can just insert a space before it.

Functions calls preceded by a hash are normal code function calls and not
affected by these rules.

##  Alignment

When equations include multiple _alignment points_ ( ` & ` ), this creates
blocks of alternatingly right- and left-aligned columns. In the example below,
the expression ` (3x + y) / 7 ` is right-aligned and ` = 9 ` is left-aligned.
The word "given" is also left-aligned because ` && ` creates two alignment
points in a row, alternating the alignment twice. ` & & ` and ` && ` behave
exactly the same way. Meanwhile, "multiply by 7" is right-aligned because just
one ` & ` precedes it. Each alignment point simply alternates between right-
aligned/left-aligned.

    
    
    $ (3x + y) / 7 &= 9 && "given" \
      3x + y &= 63 & "multiply by 7" \
      3x &= 63 - y && "subtract y" \
      x &= 21 - y/3 & "divide by 3" $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8SM9qVyRZ_Elks_C9882dAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Math fonts

You can set the math font by with a [ show-set rule
](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) as demonstrated below. Note that only
special OpenType math fonts are suitable for typesetting maths.

    
    
    #show math.equation: set text(font: "Fira Math")
    $ sum_(i in NN) 1 + i $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qG9Xcf2X5Ju0E76URIxfZgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Math module

All math functions are part of the ` math ` [ module
](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) , which is available by default in
equations. Outside of equations, they can be accessed with the ` math. `
prefix.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` accent ` ](/docs/reference/math/accent/) Attaches an accent to a base. 
  * [ attach ](/docs/reference/math/attach) Subscript, superscripts, and limits. 
  * [ ` binom ` ](/docs/reference/math/binom/) A binomial expression. 
  * [ ` cancel ` ](/docs/reference/math/cancel/) Displays a diagonal line over a part of an equation. 
  * [ ` cases ` ](/docs/reference/math/cases/) A case distinction. 
  * [ ` class ` ](/docs/reference/math/class/) Forced use of a certain math class. 
  * [ ` equation ` ](/docs/reference/math/equation/) A mathematical equation. 
  * [ ` frac ` ](/docs/reference/math/frac/) A mathematical fraction. 
  * [ lr ](/docs/reference/math/lr) Delimiter matching. 
  * [ ` mat ` ](/docs/reference/math/mat/) A matrix. 
  * [ ` op ` ](/docs/reference/math/op/) A text operator in an equation. 
  * [ ` primes ` ](/docs/reference/math/primes/) Grouped primes. 
  * [ roots ](/docs/reference/math/roots) Square and non-square roots. 
  * [ sizes ](/docs/reference/math/sizes) Forced size styles for expressions within formulas. 
  * [ ` stretch ` ](/docs/reference/math/stretch/) Stretches a glyph. 
  * [ styles ](/docs/reference/math/styles) Alternate letterforms within formulas. 
  * [ underover ](/docs/reference/math/underover) Delimiters above or below parts of an equation. 
  * [ variants ](/docs/reference/math/variants) Alternate typefaces within formulas. 
  * [ ` vec ` ](/docs/reference/math/vec/) A column vector. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Uppercase  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/upper/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Accent  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/accent/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)

#  Data Loading

Data loading from external files.

These functions help you with loading and embedding data, for example from the
results of an experiment.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` cbor ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/cbor/) Reads structured data from a CBOR file. 
  * [ ` csv ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/csv/) Reads structured data from a CSV file. 
  * [ ` json ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/json/) Reads structured data from a JSON file. 
  * [ ` read ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/) Reads plain text or data from a file. 
  * [ ` toml ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/toml/) Reads structured data from a TOML file. 
  * [ ` xml ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/xml/) Reads structured data from an XML file. 
  * [ ` yaml ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/yaml/) Reads structured data from a YAML file. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) State  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/state/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) CBOR  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/cbor/)



# **docs/reference/styling.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Styling ](/docs/reference/styling/)

#  Styling

Typst includes a flexible styling system that automatically applies styling of
your choice to your document. With _set rules,_ you can configure basic
properties of elements. This way, you create most common styles. However,
there might not be a built-in property for everything you wish to do. For this
reason, Typst further supports _show rules_ that can completely redefine the
appearance of elements.

##  Set rules

With set rules, you can customize the appearance of elements. They are written
as a [ function call ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) to an [ element
function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#element-functions) preceded
by the ` set  ` keyword (or ` #  set  ` in markup). Only optional parameters
of that function can be provided to the set rule. Refer to each function's
documentation to see which parameters are optional. In the example below, we
use two set rules to change the [ font family
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-font) and [ heading numbering
](/docs/reference/model/heading/#parameters-numbering) .

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "I.")
    #set text(
      font: "New Computer Modern"
    )
    
    = Introduction
    With set rules, you can style
    your document.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nW0VZeyhJmtpweEOjJR_fgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

A top level set rule stays in effect until the end of the file. When nested
inside of a block, it is only in effect until the end of that block. With a
block, you can thus restrict the effect of a rule to a particular segment of
your document. Below, we use a content block to scope the list styling to one
particular list.

    
    
    This list is affected: #[
      #set list(marker: [--])
      - Dash
    ]
    
    This one is not:
    - Bullet
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6ckQbXFff1zDBcdWezXxpgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Sometimes, you'll want to apply a set rule conditionally. For this, you can
use a _set-if_ rule.

    
    
    #let task(body, critical: false) = {
      set text(red) if critical
      [- #body]
    }
    
    #task(critical: true)[Food today?]
    #task(critical: false)[Work deadline]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_UlmqEOdrmM6d-OQ9TsAXwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Show rules

With show rules, you can deeply customize the look of a type of element. The
most basic form of show rule is a _show-set rule._ Such a rule is written as
the ` show  ` keyword followed by a [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/ "selector") , a colon and then a set
rule. The most basic form of selector is an [ element function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#element-functions) . This lets the set
rule only apply to the selected element. In the example below, headings become
dark blue while all other text stays black.

    
    
    #show heading: set text(navy)
    
    = This is navy-blue
    But this stays black.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DS2Pe3XVhhMMVWT9eUfjSQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

With show-set rules you can mix and match properties from different functions
to achieve many different effects. But they still limit you to what is
predefined in Typst. For maximum flexibility, you can instead write a show
rule that defines how to format an element from scratch. To write such a show
rule, replace the set rule after the colon with an arbitrary [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/ "function") . This function receives
the element in question and can return arbitrary content. The available [
fields ](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields) on the element passed to the
function again match the parameters of the respective element function. Below,
we define a show rule that formats headings for a fantasy encyclopedia.

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "(I)")
    #show heading: it => [
      #set align(center)
      #set text(font: "Inria Serif")
      \~ #emph(it.body)
         #counter(heading).display(
           it.numbering
         ) \~
    ]
    
    = Dragon
    With a base health of 15, the
    dragon is the most powerful
    creature.
    
    = Manticore
    While less powerful than the
    dragon, the manticore gets
    extra style points.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YrvkqpSwoILjuqAerzw9CAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Like set rules, show rules are in effect until the end of the current block or
file.

Instead of a function, the right-hand side of a show rule can also take a
literal string or content block that should be directly substituted for the
element. And apart from a function, the left-hand side of a show rule can also
take a number of other _selectors_ that define what to apply the
transformation to:

  * **Everything:** ` show  :  rest  => .. `   
Transform everything after the show rule. This is useful to apply a more
complex layout to your whole document without wrapping everything in a giant
function call.

  * **Text:** ` show  "Text"  :  .. `   
Style, transform or replace text.

  * **Regex:** ` show  regex  (  "\w+"  )  :  .. `   
Select and transform text with a regular expression for even more flexibility.
See the documentation of the [ ` regex ` type
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) for details.

  * **Function with fields:** ` show  heading  .  where  (  level  :  1  )  :  .. `   
Transform only elements that have the specified fields. For example, you might
want to only change the style of level-1 headings.

  * **Label:** ` show  <intro> :  .. `   
Select and transform elements that have the specified label. See the
documentation of the [ ` label ` type ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)
for more details.

    
    
    #show "Project": smallcaps
    #show "badly": "great"
    
    We started Project in 2019
    and are still working on it.
    Project is progressing badly.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/NBzIViTspdnPhsbo3WGDLAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Syntax  Previous page
](/docs/reference/syntax/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Scripting  Next page  ](/docs/reference/scripting/)



# **docs/reference/visualize.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)

#  Visualize

Drawing and data visualization.

If you want to create more advanced drawings or plots, also have a look at the
[ CetZ ](https://github.com/johannes-wolf/cetz) package as well as more
specialized [ packages ](https://typst.app/universe/) for your use case.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` circle ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/circle/) A circle with optional content. 
  * [ ` color ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) A color in a specific color space. 
  * [ ` ellipse ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/ellipse/) An ellipse with optional content. 
  * [ ` gradient ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) A color gradient. 
  * [ ` image ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/) A raster or vector graphic. 
  * [ ` line ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/line/) A line from one point to another. 
  * [ ` path ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/) A path through a list of points, connected by Bezier curves. 
  * [ ` pattern ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) A repeating pattern fill. 
  * [ ` polygon ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/) A closed polygon. 
  * [ ` rect ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/) A rectangle with optional content. 
  * [ ` square ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/square/) A square with optional content. 
  * [ ` stroke ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) Defines how to draw a line. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Stack  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/stack/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Circle  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/circle/)



# **docs/reference/layout.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)

#  Layout

Arranging elements on the page in different ways.

By combining layout functions, you can create complex and automatic layouts.

##  Definitions

  * [ ` align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/align/) Aligns content horizontally and vertically. 
  * [ ` alignment ` ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) Where to [align] something along an axis. 
  * [ ` angle ` ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) An angle describing a rotation. 
  * [ ` block ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/) A block-level container. 
  * [ ` box ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/) An inline-level container that sizes content. 
  * [ ` colbreak ` ](/docs/reference/layout/colbreak/) Forces a column break. 
  * [ ` columns ` ](/docs/reference/layout/columns/) Separates a region into multiple equally sized columns. 
  * [ ` direction ` ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/) The four directions into which content can be laid out. 
  * [ ` fraction ` ](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) Defines how the remaining space in a layout is distributed. 
  * [ ` grid ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/) Arranges content in a grid. 
  * [ ` h ` ](/docs/reference/layout/h/) Inserts horizontal spacing into a paragraph. 
  * [ ` hide ` ](/docs/reference/layout/hide/) Hides content without affecting layout. 
  * [ ` layout ` ](/docs/reference/layout/layout/) Provides access to the current outer container's (or page's, if none) 
  * [ ` length ` ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) A size or distance, possibly expressed with contextual units. 
  * [ ` measure ` ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/) Measures the layouted size of content. 
  * [ ` move ` ](/docs/reference/layout/move/) Moves content without affecting layout. 
  * [ ` pad ` ](/docs/reference/layout/pad/) Adds spacing around content. 
  * [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/) Layouts its child onto one or multiple pages. 
  * [ ` pagebreak ` ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/) A manual page break. 
  * [ ` place ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/) Places content relatively to its parent container. 
  * [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) A ratio of a whole. 
  * [ ` relative ` ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) A length in relation to some known length. 
  * [ ` repeat ` ](/docs/reference/layout/repeat/) Repeats content to the available space. 
  * [ ` rotate ` ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/) Rotates content without affecting layout. 
  * [ ` scale ` ](/docs/reference/layout/scale/) Scales content without affecting layout. 
  * [ ` skew ` ](/docs/reference/layout/skew/) Skews content. 
  * [ ` stack ` ](/docs/reference/layout/stack/) Arranges content and spacing horizontally or vertically. 
  * [ ` v ` ](/docs/reference/layout/v/) Inserts vertical spacing into a flow of blocks. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Symbol  Previous page
](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Align  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/align/)



# **docs/reference/scripting.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Scripting ](/docs/reference/scripting/)

#  Scripting

Typst embeds a powerful scripting language. You can automate your documents
and create more sophisticated styles with code. Below is an overview over the
scripting concepts.

##  Expressions

In Typst, markup and code are fused into one. All but the most common elements
are created with _functions._ To make this as convenient as possible, Typst
provides compact syntax to embed a code expression into markup: An expression
is introduced with a hash ( ` # ` ) and normal markup parsing resumes after
the expression is finished. If a character would continue the expression but
should be interpreted as text, the expression can forcibly be ended with a
semicolon ( ` ; ` ).

    
    
    #emph[Hello] \
    #emoji.face \
    #"hello".len()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Vvzr_VTofgbwk2d3ymxPMQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The example above shows a few of the available expressions, including [
function calls ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) , [ field accesses
](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields) , and [ method calls
](/docs/reference/scripting/#methods) . More kinds of expressions are
discussed in the remainder of this chapter. A few kinds of expressions are not
compatible with the hash syntax (e.g. binary operator expressions). To embed
these into markup, you can use parentheses, as in ` #  (  1  +  2  )  ` .

##  Blocks

To structure your code and embed markup into it, Typst provides two kinds of
_blocks:_

  * **Code block:** ` {  let  x  =  1  ;  x  +  2  }  `   
When writing code, you'll probably want to split up your computation into
multiple statements, create some intermediate variables and so on. Code blocks
let you write multiple expressions where one is expected. The individual
expressions in a code block should be separated by line breaks or semicolons.
The output values of the individual expressions in a code block are joined to
determine the block's value. Expressions without useful output, like ` let  `
bindings yield ` none  ` , which can be joined with any value without effect.

  * **Content block:** ` [  *Hey*  there!  ]  `   
With content blocks, you can handle markup/content as a programmatic value,
store it in variables and pass it to [ functions
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) . Content blocks are delimited by
square brackets and can contain arbitrary markup. A content block results in a
value of type [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/ "content") . An
arbitrary number of content blocks can be passed as trailing arguments to
functions. That is, ` list  (  [  A  ]  ,  [  B  ]  )  ` is equivalent to `
list  [  A  ]  [  B  ]  ` .

Content and code blocks can be nested arbitrarily. In the example below, ` [
hello  ]  ` is joined with the output of ` a  +  [  the  ]  +  b ` yielding `
[  hello from the  *world*  ]  ` .

    
    
    #{
      let a = [from]
      let b = [*world*]
      [hello ]
      a + [ the ] + b
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9fGlmpI93XiZ44REV_aDoQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Bindings and Destructuring

As already demonstrated above, variables can be defined with ` let  `
bindings. The variable is assigned the value of the expression that follows
the ` = ` sign. The assignment of a value is optional, if no value is
assigned, the variable will be initialized as ` none  ` . The ` let  ` keyword
can also be used to create a [ custom named function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#defining-functions) . Variables can be
accessed for the rest of the containing block (or the rest of the file if
there is no containing block).

    
    
    #let name = "Typst"
    This is #name's documentation.
    It explains #name.
    
    #let add(x, y) = x + y
    Sum is #add(2, 3).
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yrL9Iv6avU1LgnwbwwruLwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Let bindings can also be used to destructure [ arrays
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) and [ dictionaries
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) . In this case, the left-hand side
of the assignment should mirror an array or dictionary. The ` .. ` operator
can be used once in the pattern to collect the remainder of the array's or
dictionary's items.

    
    
    #let (x, y) = (1, 2)
    The coordinates are #x, #y.
    
    #let (a, .., b) = (1, 2, 3, 4)
    The first element is #a.
    The last element is #b.
    
    #let books = (
      Shakespeare: "Hamlet",
      Homer: "The Odyssey",
      Austen: "Persuasion",
    )
    
    #let (Austen,) = books
    Austen wrote #Austen.
    
    #let (Homer: h) = books
    Homer wrote #h.
    
    #let (Homer, ..other) = books
    #for (author, title) in other [
      #author wrote #title.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/V0qKVNlCRuARFWpYu5iPEAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can use the underscore to discard elements in a destructuring pattern:

    
    
    #let (_, y, _) = (1, 2, 3)
    The y coordinate is #y.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LTIPVXoxwTxHgnZJYm9hXgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Destructuring also work in argument lists of functions ...

    
    
    #let left = (2, 4, 5)
    #let right = (3, 2, 6)
    #left.zip(right).map(
      ((a,b)) => a + b
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/60UdChzzZGHopWziA6zwZwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

... and on the left-hand side of normal assignments. This can be useful to
swap variables among other things.

    
    
    #{
      let a = 1
      let b = 2
      (a, b) = (b, a)
      [a = #a, b = #b]
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LCvMaiUJqV2qC8Tphu5-bQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Conditionals

With a conditional, you can display or compute different things depending on
whether some condition is fulfilled. Typst supports ` if  ` , ` else  if  `
and ` else ` expression. When the condition evaluates to ` true  ` , the
conditional yields the value resulting from the if's body, otherwise yields
the value resulting from the else's body.

    
    
    #if 1 < 2 [
      This is shown
    ] else [
      This is not.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nwPf6X84WrGm0BEnqRUsTQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Each branch can have a code or content block as its body.

  * ` if  condition  {  ..  }  `
  * ` if  condition  [  ..  ]  `
  * ` if  condition  [  ..  ]  else  {  ..  }  `
  * ` if  condition  [  ..  ]  else  if  condition  {  ..  }  else  [  ..  ]  `

##  Loops

With loops, you can repeat content or compute something iteratively. Typst
supports two types of loops: ` for  ` and ` while  ` loops. The former iterate
over a specified collection whereas the latter iterate as long as a condition
stays fulfilled. Just like blocks, loops _join_ the results from each
iteration into one value.

In the example below, the three sentences created by the for loop join
together into a single content value and the length-1 arrays in the while loop
join together into one larger array.

    
    
    #for c in "ABC" [
      #c is a letter.
    ]
    
    #let n = 2
    #while n < 10 {
      n = (n * 2) - 1
      (n,)
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/74fsCbbxVkZaLeuPLKRiCwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

For loops can iterate over a variety of collections:

  * ` for  value  in  array  {  ..  }  `   
Iterates over the items in the [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/
"array") . The destructuring syntax described in [ Let binding
](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) can also be used here.

  * ` for  pair  in  dict  {  ..  }  `   
Iterates over the key-value pairs of the [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/ "dictionary") . The pairs can also
be destructured by using ` for  (  key  ,  value  )  in  dict  {  ..  }  ` .
It is more efficient than ` for  pair  in  dict  .  pairs  (  )  {  ..  }  `
because it doesn't create a temporary array of all key-value pairs.

  * ` for  letter  in  "abc"  {  ..  }  `   
Iterates over the characters of the [ string
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) . Technically, it iterates over the
grapheme clusters of the string. Most of the time, a grapheme cluster is just
a single codepoint. However, a grapheme cluster could contain multiple
codepoints, like a flag emoji.

  * ` for  byte  in  bytes  (  "ð"  )  {  ..  }  `   
Iterates over the [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "bytes") ,
which can be converted from a [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or
[ read ](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/ "read") from a file without
encoding. Each byte value is an [ integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
between ` 0  ` and ` 255  ` .

To control the execution of the loop, Typst provides the ` break  ` and `
continue  ` statements. The former performs an early exit from the loop while
the latter skips ahead to the next iteration of the loop.

    
    
    #for letter in "abc nope" {
      if letter == " " {
        break
      }
    
      letter
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/i6FFy2h6Ocj5FGq9VflD-QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The body of a loop can be a code or content block:

  * ` for  .. in collection  {  ..  }  `
  * ` for  .. in collection  [  ..  ]  `
  * ` while  condition  {  ..  }  `
  * ` while  condition  [  ..  ]  `

##  Fields

You can use _dot notation_ to access fields on a value. For values of type [ `
content ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/ "`content`") , you can also
use the [ ` fields ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-
fields) function to list the fields.

The value in question can be either:

  * a [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/ "dictionary") that has the specified key, 
  * a [ symbol ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/ "symbol") that has the specified modifier, 
  * a [ module ](/docs/reference/foundations/module/ "module") containing the specified definition, 
  * [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/ "content") consisting of an element that has the specified field. The available fields match the arguments of the [ element function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#element-functions) that were given when the element was constructed. 

    
    
    #let it = [= Heading]
    #it.body \
    #it.depth \
    #it.fields()
    
    #let dict = (greet: "Hello")
    #dict.greet \
    #emoji.face
    
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5WDPdcADtV7mFakfulSQigAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Methods

A _method call_ is a convenient way to call a function that is scoped to a
value's [ type ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/ "type") . For example, we
can call the [ ` str.len ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-len)
function in the following two equivalent ways:

    
    
    #str.len("abc") is the same as
    #"abc".len()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/j8kTSWLqLKb4876qGnfJQAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The structure of a method call is ` value  .  method  (  ..  args  )  ` and
its equivalent full function call is ` type  (  value  )  .  method  (  value
,  ..  args  )  ` . The documentation of each type lists it's scoped
functions. You cannot currently define your own methods.

    
    
    #let values = (1, 2, 3, 4)
    #values.pop() \
    #values.len() \
    
    #("a, b, c"
        .split(", ")
        .join[ --- ])
    
    #"abc".len() is the same as
    #str.len("abc")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/acgddNIdTiEri93pewLJSQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

There are a few special functions that modify the value they are called on
(e.g. [ ` array.push ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-push)
). These functions _must_ be called in method form. In some cases, when the
method is only called for its side effect, its return value should be ignored
(and not participate in joining). The canonical way to discard a value is with
a let binding: ` let  _  =  array  .  remove  (  1  )  ` .

##  Modules

You can split up your Typst projects into multiple files called _modules._ A
module can refer to the content and definitions of another module in multiple
ways:

  * **Including:** ` include  "bar.typ"  `   
Evaluates the file at the path ` bar.typ ` and returns the resulting [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/ "content") .

  * **Import:** ` import  "bar.typ"  `   
Evaluates the file at the path ` bar.typ ` and inserts the resulting [ module
](/docs/reference/foundations/module/ "module") into the current scope as `
bar ` (filename without extension). You can use the ` as ` keyword to rename
the imported module: ` import  "bar.typ"  as  baz ` . You can import nested
items using dot notation: ` import  "bar.typ"  :  baz  .  a ` .

  * **Import items:** ` import  "bar.typ"  :  a  ,  b `   
Evaluates the file at the path ` bar.typ ` , extracts the values of the
variables ` a ` and ` b ` (that need to be defined in ` bar.typ ` , e.g.
through ` let  ` bindings) and defines them in the current file. Replacing `
a, b ` with ` * ` loads all variables defined in a module. You can use the `
as ` keyword to rename the individual items: ` import  "bar.typ"  :  a  as
one  ,  b  as  two `

Instead of a path, you can also use a [ module value
](/docs/reference/foundations/module/) , as shown in the following example:

    
    
    #import emoji: face
    #face.grin
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nDjZVIO8y_dHmoJCcIerKgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Packages

To reuse building blocks across projects, you can also create and import Typst
_packages._ A package import is specified as a triple of a namespace, a name,
and a version.

    
    
    #import "@preview/example:0.1.0": add
    #add(2, 7)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PZlFYONRfjgFeuwUfEQd5gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The ` preview ` namespace contains packages shared by the community. You can
find all available community packages on [ Typst Universe
](https://typst.app/universe/) .

If you are using Typst locally, you can also create your own system-local
packages. For more details on this, see the [ package repository
](https://github.com/typst/packages) .

##  Operators

The following table lists all available unary and binary operators with
effect, arity (unary, binary) and precedence level (higher binds stronger).

Operator  |  Effect  |  Arity  |  Precedence   
---|---|---|---  
` -  ` |  Negation  |  Unary  |  7   
` +  ` |  No effect (exists for symmetry)  |  Unary  |  7   
` * ` |  Multiplication  |  Binary  |  6   
` / ` |  Division  |  Binary  |  6   
` +  ` |  Addition  |  Binary  |  5   
` -  ` |  Subtraction  |  Binary  |  5   
` == ` |  Check equality  |  Binary  |  4   
` != ` |  Check inequality  |  Binary  |  4   
` < ` |  Check less-than  |  Binary  |  4   
` <= ` |  Check less-than or equal  |  Binary  |  4   
` > ` |  Check greater-than  |  Binary  |  4   
` >= ` |  Check greater-than or equal  |  Binary  |  4   
` in ` |  Check if in collection  |  Binary  |  4   
` not  in  ` |  Check if not in collection  |  Binary  |  4   
` not  ` |  Logical "not"  |  Unary  |  3   
` and ` |  Short-circuiting logical "and"  |  Binary  |  3   
` or ` |  Short-circuiting logical "or  |  Binary  |  2   
` = ` |  Assignment  |  Binary  |  1   
` += ` |  Add-Assignment  |  Binary  |  1   
` -= ` |  Subtraction-Assignment  |  Binary  |  1   
` *= ` |  Multiplication-Assignment  |  Binary  |  1   
` /= ` |  Division-Assignment  |  Binary  |  1   
  
[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Styling  Previous page
](/docs/reference/styling/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Context
Next page  ](/docs/reference/context/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading/csv.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ CSV ](/docs/reference/data-loading/csv/)

#  ` csv `

Reads structured data from a CSV file.

The CSV file will be read and parsed into a 2-dimensional array of strings:
Each row in the CSV file will be represented as an array of strings, and all
rows will be collected into a single array. Header rows will not be stripped.

##  Example

    
    
    #let results = csv("example.csv")
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      [*Condition*], [*Result*],
      ..results.flatten(),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/wZK4j33X4RoMvhQZsQnpmQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

csv  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  delimiter  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  row-type  :  [ type
](/docs/reference/foundations/type/) ,

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to a CSV file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

###  ` delimiter `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The delimiter that separates columns in the CSV file. Must be a single ASCII
character.

Default: ` ","  `

###  ` row-type `

[ type ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/)

How to represent the file's rows.

  * If set to ` array ` , each row is represented as a plain array of strings. 
  * If set to ` dictionary ` , each row is represented as a dictionary mapping from header keys to strings. This option only makes sense when a header row is present in the CSV file. 

Default: ` array `

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` decode `

Reads structured data from a CSV string/bytes.

csv  .  decode  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) ,  delimiter  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  row-type  :  [ type
](/docs/reference/foundations/type/) ,

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` data `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

CSV data.

####  ` delimiter `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The delimiter that separates columns in the CSV file. Must be a single ASCII
character.

Default: ` ","  `

####  ` row-type `

[ type ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/)

How to represent the file's rows.

  * If set to ` array ` , each row is represented as a plain array of strings. 
  * If set to ` dictionary ` , each row is represented as a dictionary mapping from header keys to strings. This option only makes sense when a header row is present in the CSV file. 

Default: ` array `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) CBOR  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/cbor/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) JSON  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/json/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading/yaml.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ YAML ](/docs/reference/data-loading/yaml/)

#  ` yaml `

Reads structured data from a YAML file.

The file must contain a valid YAML object or array. YAML mappings will be
converted into Typst dictionaries, and YAML sequences will be converted into
Typst arrays. Strings and booleans will be converted into the Typst
equivalents, null-values ( ` null ` , ` ~ ` or empty ``) will be converted
into ` none  ` , and numbers will be converted to floats or integers depending
on whether they are whole numbers. Custom YAML tags are ignored, though the
loaded value will still be present.

Be aware that integers larger than 2  63  -1 will be converted to floating
point numbers, which may give an approximative value.

The YAML files in the example contain objects with authors as keys, each with
a sequence of their own submapping with the keys "title" and "published"

##  Example

    
    
    #let bookshelf(contents) = {
      for (author, works) in contents {
        author
        for work in works [
          - #work.title (#work.published)
        ]
      }
    }
    
    #bookshelf(
      yaml("scifi-authors.yaml")
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zhzvOjbNeHnb4ZYJg032GwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

yaml  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> any

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to a YAML file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` decode `

Reads structured data from a YAML string/bytes.

yaml  .  decode  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

)  -> any

####  ` data `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

YAML data.

###  ` encode `

Encode structured data into a YAML string.

yaml  .  encode  (

any

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Value to be encoded.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) XML  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/xml/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Guides  Next page  ](/docs/guides/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading/json.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ JSON ](/docs/reference/data-loading/json/)

#  ` json `

Reads structured data from a JSON file.

The file must contain a valid JSON value, such as object or array. JSON
objects will be converted into Typst dictionaries, and JSON arrays will be
converted into Typst arrays. Strings and booleans will be converted into the
Typst equivalents, ` null ` will be converted into ` none  ` , and numbers
will be converted to floats or integers depending on whether they are whole
numbers.

Be aware that integers larger than 2  63  -1 will be converted to floating
point numbers, which may result in an approximative value.

The function returns a dictionary, an array or, depending on the JSON file,
another JSON data type.

The JSON files in the example contain objects with the keys ` temperature ` ,
` unit ` , and ` weather ` .

##  Example

    
    
    #let forecast(day) = block[
      #box(square(
        width: 2cm,
        inset: 8pt,
        fill: if day.weather == "sunny" {
          yellow
        } else {
          aqua
        },
        align(
          bottom + right,
          strong(day.weather),
        ),
      ))
      #h(6pt)
      #set text(22pt, baseline: -8pt)
      #day.temperature Â°#day.unit
    ]
    
    #forecast(json("monday.json"))
    #forecast(json("tuesday.json"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9TGGThvdnznDbVRRo5-HsgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

json  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> any

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to a JSON file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` decode `

Reads structured data from a JSON string/bytes.

json  .  decode  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

)  -> any

####  ` data `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

JSON data.

###  ` encode `

Encodes structured data into a JSON string.

json  .  encode  (

any  ,  pretty  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Value to be encoded.

####  ` pretty `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to pretty print the JSON with newlines and indentation.

Default: ` true  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) CSV  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/csv/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Read  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading/read.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Read ](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/)

#  ` read `

Reads plain text or data from a file.

By default, the file will be read as UTF-8 and returned as a [ string
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) .

If you specify ` encoding:  none  ` , this returns raw [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "bytes") instead.

##  Example

    
    
    An example for a HTML file: \
    #let text = read("example.html")
    #raw(text, lang: "html")
    
    Raw bytes:
    #read("tiger.jpg", encoding: none)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uS5DrZwzU2PIqO_vdJc7GQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

read  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  encoding  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to a file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

###  ` encoding `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The encoding to read the file with.

If set to ` none  ` , this function returns raw bytes.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  utf8  " ` |  The Unicode UTF-8 encoding.   
  
Default: ` "utf8"  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) JSON  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/json/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) TOML  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/toml/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading/toml.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ TOML ](/docs/reference/data-loading/toml/)

#  ` toml `

Reads structured data from a TOML file.

The file must contain a valid TOML table. TOML tables will be converted into
Typst dictionaries, and TOML arrays will be converted into Typst arrays.
Strings, booleans and datetimes will be converted into the Typst equivalents
and numbers will be converted to floats or integers depending on whether they
are whole numbers.

The TOML file in the example consists of a table with the keys ` title ` , `
version ` , and ` authors ` .

##  Example

    
    
    #let details = toml("details.toml")
    
    Title: #details.title \
    Version: #details.version \
    Authors: #(details.authors
      .join(", ", last: " and "))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/f26frHBWUfr7bIomQ1qwWAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

toml  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> any

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to a TOML file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` decode `

Reads structured data from a TOML string/bytes.

toml  .  decode  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

)  -> any

####  ` data `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

TOML data.

###  ` encode `

Encodes structured data into a TOML string.

toml  .  encode  (

any  ,  pretty  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Value to be encoded.

####  ` pretty `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to pretty-print the resulting TOML.

Default: ` true  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Read  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) XML  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/xml/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading/cbor.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ CBOR ](/docs/reference/data-loading/cbor/)

#  ` cbor `

Reads structured data from a CBOR file.

The file must contain a valid CBOR serialization. Mappings will be converted
into Typst dictionaries, and sequences will be converted into Typst arrays.
Strings and booleans will be converted into the Typst equivalents, null-values
( ` null ` , ` ~ ` or empty ``) will be converted into ` none  ` , and numbers
will be converted to floats or integers depending on whether they are whole
numbers.

Be aware that integers larger than 2  63  -1 will be converted to floating
point numbers, which may result in an approximative value.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

cbor  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> any

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to a CBOR file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` decode `

Reads structured data from CBOR bytes.

cbor  .  decode  (

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

)  -> any

####  ` data `

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

cbor data.

###  ` encode `

Encode structured data into CBOR bytes.

cbor  .  encode  (

any

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Value to be encoded.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Data Loading  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
CSV  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/csv/)



# **docs/reference/data-loading/xml.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Data Loading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ XML ](/docs/reference/data-loading/xml/)

#  ` xml `

Reads structured data from an XML file.

The XML file is parsed into an array of dictionaries and strings. XML nodes
can be elements or strings. Elements are represented as dictionaries with the
following keys:

  * ` tag ` : The name of the element as a string. 
  * ` attrs ` : A dictionary of the element's attributes as strings. 
  * ` children ` : An array of the element's child nodes. 

The XML file in the example contains a root ` news ` tag with multiple `
article ` tags. Each article has a ` title ` , ` author ` , and ` content `
tag. The ` content ` tag contains one or more paragraphs, which are
represented as ` p ` tags.

##  Example

    
    
    #let find-child(elem, tag) = {
      elem.children
        .find(e => "tag" in e and e.tag == tag)
    }
    
    #let article(elem) = {
      let title = find-child(elem, "title")
      let author = find-child(elem, "author")
      let pars = find-child(elem, "content")
    
      heading(title.children.first())
      text(10pt, weight: "medium")[
        Published by
        #author.children.first()
      ]
    
      for p in pars.children {
        if (type(p) == "dictionary") {
          parbreak()
          p.children.first()
        }
      }
    }
    
    #let data = xml("example.xml")
    #for elem in data.first().children {
      if (type(elem) == "dictionary") {
        article(elem)
      }
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ImsUm8fcO-Uh3s95k6HvEQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

xml  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> any

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to an XML file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` decode `

Reads structured data from an XML string/bytes.

xml  .  decode  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

)  -> any

####  ` data `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

XML data.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) TOML  Previous page
](/docs/reference/data-loading/toml/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) YAML  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/yaml/)



# **docs/reference/layout/stack.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Stack ](/docs/reference/layout/stack/)

#  ` stack ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Arranges content and spacing horizontally or vertically.

The stack places a list of items along an axis, with optional spacing between
each item.

##  Example

    
    
    #stack(
      dir: ttb,
      rect(width: 40pt),
      rect(width: 120pt),
      rect(width: 90pt),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/rblc_gO4o5qSEPJtXD1qPgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

stack  (

dir  :  [ direction ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/) ,  spacing  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  ..  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` dir `

[ direction ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The direction along which the items are stacked. Possible values are:

  * ` ltr ` : Left to right. 
  * ` rtl ` : Right to left. 
  * ` ttb ` : Top to bottom. 
  * ` btt ` : Bottom to top. 

You can use the ` start ` and ` end ` methods to obtain the initial and final
points (respectively) of a direction, as ` alignment ` . You can also use the
` axis ` method to determine whether a direction is ` "horizontal"  ` or `
"vertical"  ` . The ` inv ` method returns a direction's inverse direction.

For example, ` ttb  .  start  (  )  ` is ` top ` , ` ttb  .  end  (  )  ` is `
bottom ` , ` ttb  .  axis  (  )  ` is ` "vertical"  ` and ` ttb  .  inv  (  )
` is equal to ` btt ` .

Default: ` ttb `

###  ` spacing `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Spacing to insert between items where no explicit spacing was provided.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` children `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The children to stack along the axis.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Spacing (V)  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/v/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Visualize  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/)



# **docs/reference/layout/hide.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Hide ](/docs/reference/layout/hide/)

#  ` hide ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Hides content without affecting layout.

The ` hide ` function allows you to hide content while the layout still 'sees'
it. This is useful to create whitespace that is exactly as large as some
content. It may also be useful to redact content because its arguments are not
included in the output.

##  Example

    
    
    Hello Jane \
    #hide[Hello] Joe
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/w0ioP6Ne87hOMXgpgPJirgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

hide  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to hide.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Grid  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Layout  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/layout/)



# **docs/reference/layout/move.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Move ](/docs/reference/layout/move/)

#  ` move ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Moves content without affecting layout.

The ` move ` function allows you to move content while the layout still 'sees'
it at the original positions. Containers will still be sized as if the content
was not moved.

##  Example

    
    
    #rect(inset: 0pt, move(
      dx: 6pt, dy: 6pt,
      rect(
        inset: 8pt,
        fill: white,
        stroke: black,
        [Abra cadabra]
      )
    ))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1MdBh-uXG6kGRG6DYdlcJAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

move  (

dx  :  [ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  dy  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` dx `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The horizontal displacement of the content.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` dy `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The vertical displacement of the content.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to move.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Measure  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/measure/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Padding  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/pad/)



# **docs/reference/layout/pad.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Padding ](/docs/reference/layout/pad/)

#  ` pad ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Adds spacing around content.

The spacing can be specified for each side individually, or for all sides at
once by specifying a positional argument.

##  Example

    
    
    #set align(center)
    
    #pad(x: 16pt, image("typing.jpg"))
    _Typing speeds can be
     measured in words per minute._
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YnvzY3ls2HrcPgokDMxVqwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

pad  (

left  :  [ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  top  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  right  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  bottom  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  x  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  y  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  rest  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` left `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The padding at the left side.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` top `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The padding at the top side.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` right `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The padding at the right side.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` bottom `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The padding at the bottom side.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` x `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A shorthand to set ` left ` and ` right ` to the same value.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` y `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A shorthand to set ` top ` and ` bottom ` to the same value.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` rest `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A shorthand to set all four sides to the same value.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to pad at the sides.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Move  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/move/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Page  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/page/)



# **docs/reference/layout/relative.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Relative Length ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

#  relative

A length in relation to some known length.

This type is a combination of a [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/
"length") with a [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "ratio") . It results
from addition and subtraction of a length and a ratio. Wherever a relative
length is expected, you can also use a bare length or ratio.

##  Example

    
    
    #rect(width: 100% - 50pt)
    
    #(100% - 50pt).length \
    #(100% - 50pt).ratio
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/eMTS_wIJ-8rLzP6A-A6wPAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

A relative length has the following fields:

  * ` length ` : Its length component. 
  * ` ratio ` : Its ratio component. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Ratio  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Repeat  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/repeat/)



# **docs/reference/layout/columns.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Columns ](/docs/reference/layout/columns/)

#  ` columns ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Separates a region into multiple equally sized columns.

The ` column ` function lets you separate the interior of any container into
multiple columns. It will currently not balance the height of the columns.
Instead, the columns will take up the height of their container or the
remaining height on the page. Support for balanced columns is planned for the
future.

##  Page-level columns

If you need to insert columns across your whole document, use the ` page `
function's [ ` columns ` parameter ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-
columns) instead. This will create the columns directly at the page-level
rather than wrapping all of your content in a layout container. As a result,
things like [ pagebreaks ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/) , [ footnotes
](/docs/reference/model/footnote/) , and [ line numbers
](/docs/reference/model/par/#definitions-line) will continue to work as
expected. For more information, also read the [ relevant part of the page
setup guide ](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/#columns) .

##  Breaking out of columns

To temporarily break out of columns (e.g. for a paper's title), use parent-
scoped floating placement:

    
    
    #set page(columns: 2, height: 150pt)
    
    #place(
      top + center,
      scope: "parent",
      float: true,
      text(1.4em, weight: "bold")[
        My document
      ],
    )
    
    #lorem(40)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qNRmHdtNgs8qpE-RUR-XyQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

columns  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  gutter  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The number of columns.

Default: ` 2  `

###  ` gutter `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The size of the gutter space between each column.

Default: ` 4%  +  0pt  `

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content that should be layouted into the columns.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Column Break  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/colbreak/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Direction  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/)



# **docs/reference/layout/repeat.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Repeat ](/docs/reference/layout/repeat/)

#  ` repeat ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Repeats content to the available space.

This can be useful when implementing a custom index, reference, or outline.

Space may be inserted between the instances of the body parameter, so be sure
to adjust the [ ` justify ` ](/docs/reference/layout/repeat/#parameters-
justify) parameter accordingly.

Errors if there no bounds on the available space, as it would create infinite
content.

##  Example

    
    
    Sign on the dotted line:
    #box(width: 1fr, repeat[.])
    
    #set text(10pt)
    #v(8pt, weak: true)
    #align(right)[
      Berlin, the 22nd of December, 2022
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LGILa4453RB6xoEobzmQcAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

repeat  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  gap  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  justify  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to repeat.

###  ` gap `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gap between each instance of the body.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` justify `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to increase the gap between instances to completely fill the available
space.

Default: ` true  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Relative Length  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Rotate  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/)



# **docs/reference/layout/h.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Spacing (H) ](/docs/reference/layout/h/)

#  ` h ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Inserts horizontal spacing into a paragraph.

The spacing can be absolute, relative, or fractional. In the last case, the
remaining space on the line is distributed among all fractional spacings
according to their relative fractions.

##  Example

    
    
    First #h(1cm) Second \
    First #h(30%) Second
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8wL-xYLR6Y7MLlpoIuX_vAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Fractional spacing

With fractional spacing, you can align things within a line without forcing a
paragraph break (like [ ` align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/align/ "`align`")
would). Each fractionally sized element gets space based on the ratio of its
fraction to the sum of all fractions.

    
    
    First #h(1fr) Second \
    First #h(1fr) Second #h(1fr) Third \
    First #h(2fr) Second #h(1fr) Third
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/pBCqhY9Aheurjnzy2VgPBgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Mathematical Spacing

In [ mathematical formulas ](/docs/reference/math/) , you can additionally use
these constants to add spacing between elements: ` thin ` (1/6Â em), ` med `
(2/9Â em), ` thick ` (5/18Â em), ` quad ` (1Â em), ` wide ` (2Â em).

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

h  (

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  weak  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` amount `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

How much spacing to insert.

###  ` weak `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

If ` true  ` , the spacing collapses at the start or end of a paragraph.
Moreover, from multiple adjacent weak spacings all but the largest one
collapse.

Weak spacing in markup also causes all adjacent markup spaces to be removed,
regardless of the amount of spacing inserted. To force a space next to weak
spacing, you can explicitly write ` #  " "  ` (for a normal space) or ` ~  `
(for a non-breaking space). The latter can be useful to create a construct
that always attaches to the preceding word with one non-breaking space,
independently of whether a markup space existed in front or not.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #h(1cm, weak: true)
    We identified a group of _weak_
    specimens that fail to manifest
    in most cases. However, when
    #h(8pt, weak: true) supported
    #h(8pt, weak: true) on both sides,
    they do show up.
    
    Further #h(0pt, weak: true) more,
    even the smallest of them swallow
    adjacent markup spaces.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/c_7b_9WV6STCF2ERdGhpfQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Skew  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/skew/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Spacing (V)  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/v/)



# **docs/reference/layout/scale.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Scale ](/docs/reference/layout/scale/)

#  ` scale ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Scales content without affecting layout.

Lets you mirror content by specifying a negative scale on a single axis.

##  Example

    
    
    #set align(center)
    #scale(x: -100%)[This is mirrored.]
    #scale(x: -100%, reflow: true)[This is mirrored.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ShH8NomqhuEYrrdUbApjaAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

scale  (

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
x  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
y  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
origin  :  [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  reflow  :  [
bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` factor `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The scaling factor for both axes, as a positional argument. This is just an
optional shorthand notation for setting ` x ` and ` y ` to the same value.

Default: ` 100%  `

###  ` x `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The horizontal scaling factor.

The body will be mirrored horizontally if the parameter is negative.

Default: ` 100%  `

###  ` y `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The vertical scaling factor.

The body will be mirrored vertically if the parameter is negative.

Default: ` 100%  `

###  ` origin `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The origin of the transformation.

Default: ` center  +  horizon `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    A#box(scale(75%)[A])A \
    B#box(scale(75%, origin: bottom + left)[B])B
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dT49GhvKfj-Kj_N_KdtBqQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` reflow `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the scaling impacts the layout.

If set to ` false  ` , the scaled content will be allowed to overlap other
content. If set to ` true  ` , it will compute the new size of the scaled
content and adjust the layout accordingly.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    Hello #scale(x: 20%, y: 40%, reflow: true)[World]!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8qEVgn4pU_8oLmlhe4cX2QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to scale.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Rotate  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Skew  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/skew/)



# **docs/reference/layout/pagebreak.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Page Break ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/)

#  ` pagebreak ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A manual page break.

Must not be used inside any containers.

##  Example

    
    
    The next page contains
    more details on compound theory.
    #pagebreak()
    
    == Compound Theory
    In 1984, the first ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MJju6am_GVBgtJWStEY3AwAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/MJju6am_GVBgtJWStEY3AwAAAAAAAAAB.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

pagebreak  (

weak  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  to  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` weak `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

If ` true  ` , the page break is skipped if the current page is already empty.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` to `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

If given, ensures that the next page will be an even/odd page, with an empty
page in between if necessary.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  even  " ` |  Next page will be an even page.   
` "  odd  " ` |  Next page will be an odd page.   
  
Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 30pt)
    
    First.
    #pagebreak(to: "odd")
    Third.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_4CDe0eaU4eyZtVUd1ArigAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/_4CDe0eaU4eyZtVUd1ArigAAAAAAAAAB.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/_4CDe0eaU4eyZtVUd1ArigAAAAAAAAAC.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Page  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/page/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Place  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/place/)



# **docs/reference/layout/colbreak.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Column Break ](/docs/reference/layout/colbreak/)

#  ` colbreak ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Forces a column break.

The function will behave like a [ page break
](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/) when used in a single column layout or
the last column on a page. Otherwise, content after the column break will be
placed in the next column.

##  Example

    
    
    #set page(columns: 2)
    Preliminary findings from our
    ongoing research project have
    revealed a hitherto unknown
    phenomenon of extraordinary
    significance.
    
    #colbreak()
    Through rigorous experimentation
    and analysis, we have discovered
    a hitherto uncharacterized process
    that defies our current
    understanding of the fundamental
    laws of nature.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MXyldqpQM7MpLi9gC6sPGAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

colbreak  (

weak  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` weak `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

If ` true  ` , the column break is skipped if the current column is already
empty.

Default: ` false  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Box  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/box/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Columns  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/columns/)



# **docs/reference/layout/block.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Block ](/docs/reference/layout/block/)

#  ` block ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A block-level container.

Such a container can be used to separate content, size it, and give it a
background or border.

##  Examples

With a block, you can give a background to content while still allowing it to
break across multiple pages.

    
    
    #set page(height: 100pt)
    #block(
      fill: luma(230),
      inset: 8pt,
      radius: 4pt,
      lorem(30),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ANNbdXVxvjEeHE66qUzAcwAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/ANNbdXVxvjEeHE66qUzAcwAAAAAAAAAB.png)

Blocks are also useful to force elements that would otherwise be inline to
become block-level, especially when writing show rules.

    
    
    #show heading: it => it.body
    = Blockless
    More text.
    
    #show heading: it => block(it.body)
    = Blocky
    More text.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/oxrD9vHAqcb-9gLEkFF_PQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

block  (

width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  breakable  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  radius  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  outset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  spacing  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  above  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  below  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  clip  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  sticky  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The block's width.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set align(center)
    #block(
      width: 60%,
      inset: 8pt,
      fill: silver,
      lorem(10),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/rmTSlZT-FzVZcPQGVLOIiwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The block's height. When the height is larger than the remaining space on a
page and [ ` breakable ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-breakable)
is ` true  ` , the block will continue on the next page with the remaining
height.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 80pt)
    #set align(center)
    #block(
      width: 80%,
      height: 150%,
      fill: aqua,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/lezx_tGBIjN0y72kerj7yQAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/lezx_tGBIjN0y72kerj7yQAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` breakable `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the block can be broken and continue on the next page.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 80pt)
    The following block will
    jump to its own page.
    #block(
      breakable: false,
      lorem(15),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/I4HMzOAjAUbW-RK0a_YVHAAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/I4HMzOAjAUbW-RK0a_YVHAAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The block's background color. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-fill) for more details.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The block's border color. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-stroke) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` radius `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to round the block's corners. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-radius) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the block's content. See the [ box's documentation
](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-inset) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` outset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to expand the block's size without affecting the layout. See the [
box's documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-outset) for more
details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` spacing `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing around the block. When ` auto  ` , inherits the paragraph [ `
spacing ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) .

For two adjacent blocks, the larger of the first block's ` above ` and the
second block's ` below ` spacing wins. Moreover, block spacing takes
precedence over paragraph [ ` spacing `
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) .

Note that this is only a shorthand to set ` above ` and ` below ` to the same
value. Since the values for ` above ` and ` below ` might differ, a [ context
](/docs/reference/context/ "context") block only provides access to ` block  .
above ` and ` block  .  below ` , not to ` block  .  spacing ` directly.

This property can be used in combination with a show rule to adjust the
spacing around arbitrary block-level elements.

Default: ` 1.2em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set align(center)
    #show math.equation: set block(above: 8pt, below: 16pt)
    
    This sum of $x$ and $y$:
    $ x + y = z $
    A second paragraph.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/-Z0A6wte5TbEZ6mEwTPvngAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` above `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between this block and its predecessor.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` below `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between this block and its successor.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` clip `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to clip the content inside the block.

Clipping is useful when the block's content is larger than the block itself,
as any content that exceeds the block's bounds will be hidden.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #block(
      width: 50pt,
      height: 50pt,
      clip: true,
      image("tiger.jpg", width: 100pt, height: 100pt)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VV4XHW5eLH_lso6MwHK6pQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` sticky `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether this block must stick to the following one, with no break in between.

This is, by default, set on heading blocks to prevent orphaned headings at the
bottom of the page.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    // Disable stickiness of headings.
    #show heading: set block(sticky: false)
    #lorem(20)
    
    = Chapter
    #lorem(10)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9rTrIlbIWN6fRV2-gOoijQAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/9rTrIlbIWN6fRV2-gOoijQAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` body `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The contents of the block.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Angle  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Box  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/box/)



# **docs/reference/layout/rotate.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Rotate ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/)

#  ` rotate ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Rotates content without affecting layout.

Rotates an element by a given angle. The layout will act as if the element was
not rotated unless you specify ` reflow:  true  ` .

##  Example

    
    
    #stack(
      dir: ltr,
      spacing: 1fr,
      ..range(16)
        .map(i => rotate(24deg * i)[X]),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KRNlJxFzPXxwMsKBe0vSFQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

rotate  (

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  origin  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  reflow  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` angle `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of rotation.

Default: ` 0deg  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #rotate(-1.571rad)[Space!]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_kx75fW11u8TY_Zj6luytwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` origin `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The origin of the rotation.

If, for instance, you wanted the bottom left corner of the rotated element to
stay aligned with the baseline, you would set it to ` bottom + left ` instead.

Default: ` center  +  horizon `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(spacing: 8pt)
    #let square = square.with(width: 8pt)
    
    #box(square())
    #box(rotate(30deg, origin: center, square()))
    #box(rotate(30deg, origin: top + left, square()))
    #box(rotate(30deg, origin: bottom + right, square()))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ZzBCk0ymiIeT5xo4XXc-8QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` reflow `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the rotation impacts the layout.

If set to ` false  ` , the rotated content will retain the bounding box of the
original content. If set to ` true  ` , the bounding box will take the
rotation of the content into account and adjust the layout accordingly.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    Hello #rotate(90deg, reflow: true)[World]!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/i8AMp2vxmKn3Nn0wwA1Z0wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to rotate.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Repeat  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/repeat/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Scale  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/scale/)



# **docs/reference/layout/align.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Align ](/docs/reference/layout/align/)

#  ` align ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Aligns content horizontally and vertically.

##  Example

Let's start with centering our content horizontally:

    
    
    #set page(height: 120pt)
    #set align(center)
    
    Centered text, a sight to see \
    In perfect balance, visually \
    Not left nor right, it stands alone \
    A work of art, a visual throne
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kcNIG-bYA8T9BUDnjCUJGgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

To center something vertically, use _horizon_ alignment:

    
    
    #set page(height: 120pt)
    #set align(horizon)
    
    Vertically centered, \
    the stage had entered, \
    a new paragraph.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/y9OO-MSDQIHWsGPc_6pNnAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Combining alignments

You can combine two alignments with the ` + ` operator. Let's also only apply
this to one piece of content by using the function form instead of a set rule:

    
    
    #set page(height: 120pt)
    Though left in the beginning ...
    
    #align(right + bottom)[
      ... they were right in the end, \
      and with addition had gotten, \
      the paragraph to the bottom!
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gXaqAMYC8Licj_UCK0JSFgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Nested alignment

You can use varying alignments for layout containers and the elements within
them. This way, you can create intricate layouts:

    
    
    #align(center, block[
      #set align(left)
      Though centered together \
      alone \
      we \
      are \
      left.
    ])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/B6Y-WWFtiUjCHNJ9B8R8vQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Alignment within the same line

The ` align ` function performs block-level alignment and thus always
interrupts the current paragraph. To have different alignment for parts of the
same line, you should use [ fractional spacing ](/docs/reference/layout/h/)
instead:

    
    
    Start #h(1fr) End
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/jlafwbE2ZuISwJPQNRzA3gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

align  (

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` alignment `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/ "alignment") along both
axes.

Default: ` start  +  top `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 6cm)
    #set text(lang: "ar")
    
    ÙØ«Ø§Ù
    #align(
      end + horizon,
      rect(inset: 12pt)[Ø±ÙÙ]
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3176vm6IE_BNfZrVpc9_xAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to align.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Layout  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Alignment  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)



# **docs/reference/layout/fraction.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Fraction ](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

#  fraction

Defines how the remaining space in a layout is distributed.

Each fractionally sized element gets space based on the ratio of its fraction
to the sum of all fractions.

For more details, also see the [ h ](/docs/reference/layout/h/ "h") and [ v
](/docs/reference/layout/v/ "v") functions and the [ grid function
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/) .

##  Example

    
    
    Left #h(1fr) Left-ish #h(2fr) Right
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Mh5sjFkAJFlbM1vm_65COgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Direction  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/direction/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Grid  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/)



# **docs/reference/layout/direction.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Direction ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/)

#  direction

The four directions into which content can be laid out.

Possible values are:

  * ` ltr ` : Left to right. 
  * ` rtl ` : Right to left. 
  * ` ttb ` : Top to bottom. 
  * ` btt ` : Bottom to top. 

These values are available globally and also in the direction type's scope, so
you can write either of the following two:

    
    
    #stack(dir: rtl)[A][B][C]
    #stack(dir: direction.rtl)[A][B][C]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/43rZPR36KLZcf8RLRLjX0wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` axis `

The axis this direction belongs to, either ` "horizontal"  ` or ` "vertical"
` .

self  .  axis  (

)

    
    
    #ltr.axis() \
    #ttb.axis()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JrNsSPuIGz5d-HyvpKlmRAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` start `

The start point of this direction, as an alignment.

self  .  start  (

)  -> [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

    
    
    #ltr.start() \
    #rtl.start() \
    #ttb.start() \
    #btt.start()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/N9RQCkuykNN4FsJgRg06GgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` end `

The end point of this direction, as an alignment.

self  .  end  (

)  -> [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

    
    
    #ltr.end() \
    #rtl.end() \
    #ttb.end() \
    #btt.end()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/NDjcpeKFmKqoCGermlx1dAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` inv `

The inverse direction.

self  .  inv  (

)  -> [ direction ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/)

    
    
    #ltr.inv() \
    #rtl.inv() \
    #ttb.inv() \
    #btt.inv()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kBDvCk2AJ9dPd5ZUJjxcOgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Columns  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/columns/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Fraction  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)



# **docs/reference/layout/v.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Spacing (V) ](/docs/reference/layout/v/)

#  ` v ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Inserts vertical spacing into a flow of blocks.

The spacing can be absolute, relative, or fractional. In the last case, the
remaining space on the page is distributed among all fractional spacings
according to their relative fractions.

##  Example

    
    
    #grid(
      rows: 3cm,
      columns: 6,
      gutter: 1fr,
      [A #parbreak() B],
      [A #v(0pt) B],
      [A #v(10pt) B],
      [A #v(0pt, weak: true) B],
      [A #v(40%, weak: true) B],
      [A #v(1fr) B],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DNC2m_0X9s5xLmHMABxCvgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

v  (

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  weak  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` amount `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

How much spacing to insert.

###  ` weak `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

If ` true  ` , the spacing collapses at the start or end of a flow. Moreover,
from multiple adjacent weak spacings all but the largest one collapse. Weak
spacings will always collapse adjacent paragraph spacing, even if the
paragraph spacing is larger.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    The following theorem is
    foundational to the field:
    #v(4pt, weak: true)
    $ x^2 + y^2 = r^2 $
    #v(4pt, weak: true)
    The proof is simple:
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/7Xa6Zl_-zWfWaA6gosM_0QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Spacing (H)  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/h/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Stack
Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/stack/)



# **docs/reference/layout/alignment.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

#  alignment

Where to [ align ](/docs/reference/layout/align/ "align") something along an
axis.

Possible values are:

  * ` start ` : Aligns at the [ start ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/#definitions-start) of the [ text direction ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-dir) . 
  * ` end ` : Aligns at the [ end ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/#definitions-end) of the [ text direction ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-dir) . 
  * ` left ` : Align at the left. 
  * ` center ` : Aligns in the middle, horizontally. 
  * ` right ` : Aligns at the right. 
  * ` top ` : Aligns at the top. 
  * ` horizon ` : Aligns in the middle, vertically. 
  * ` bottom ` : Align at the bottom. 

These values are available globally and also in the alignment type's scope, so
you can write either of the following two:

    
    
    #align(center)[Hi]
    #align(alignment.center)[Hi]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ZprGjLBPSUJ5f2a4fil8IAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  2D alignments

To align along both axes at the same time, add the two alignments using the `
+ ` operator. For example, ` top + right ` aligns the content to the top right
corner.

    
    
    #set page(height: 3cm)
    #align(center + bottom)[Hi]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/X3ZrV0nn1RgePWtIVMB4XgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Fields

The ` x ` and ` y ` fields hold the alignment's horizontal and vertical
components, respectively (as yet another ` alignment ` ). They may be ` none
` .

    
    
    #(top + right).x \
    #left.x \
    #left.y (none)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ecr8JX7jRnRHSrOlOhwwRwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` axis `

The axis this alignment belongs to.

  * ` "horizontal"  ` for ` start ` , ` left ` , ` center ` , ` right ` , and ` end `
  * ` "vertical"  ` for ` top ` , ` horizon ` , and ` bottom `
  * ` none  ` for 2-dimensional alignments 

self  .  axis  (

)

    
    
    #left.axis() \
    #bottom.axis()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OHqui2ES_RRnmxyOZdFWIgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` inv `

The inverse alignment.

self  .  inv  (

)  -> [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

    
    
    #top.inv() \
    #left.inv() \
    #center.inv() \
    #(left + bottom).inv()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tBAxSGcUdyogNGn2l8Pm_QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Align  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/align/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Angle  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)



# **docs/reference/layout/skew.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Skew ](/docs/reference/layout/skew/)

#  ` skew ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Skews content.

Skews an element in horizontal and/or vertical direction. The layout will act
as if the element was not skewed unless you specify ` reflow:  true  ` .

##  Example

    
    
    #skew(ax: -12deg)[
      This is some fake italic text.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/FUtSyVs-Ma5rvUP8B0w5fQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

skew  (

ax  :  [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  ay  :  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  origin  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  reflow  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` ax `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The horizontal skewing angle.

Default: ` 0deg  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #skew(ax: 30deg)[Skewed]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/H9k2hlR_HYwp5MND40z3rgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` ay `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The vertical skewing angle.

Default: ` 0deg  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #skew(ay: 30deg)[Skewed]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DIs5kgGdkepXxpgHWt0vxAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` origin `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The origin of the skew transformation.

The origin will stay fixed during the operation.

Default: ` center  +  horizon `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    X #box(skew(ax: -30deg, origin: center + horizon)[X]) X \
    X #box(skew(ax: -30deg, origin: bottom + left)[X]) X \
    X #box(skew(ax: -30deg, origin: top + right)[X]) X
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/2Hq4GFYS1tSqCnluz3jbcQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` reflow `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the skew transformation impacts the layout.

If set to ` false  ` , the skewed content will retain the bounding box of the
original content. If set to ` true  ` , the bounding box will take the
transformation of the content into account and adjust the layout accordingly.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    Hello #skew(ay: 30deg, reflow: true, "World")!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/-k-PUuRezD-q6j7vk-xQWAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to skew.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Scale  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/scale/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Spacing (H)  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/h/)



# **docs/reference/layout/box.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Box ](/docs/reference/layout/box/)

#  ` box ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

An inline-level container that sizes content.

All elements except inline math, text, and boxes are block-level and cannot
occur inside of a paragraph. The box function can be used to integrate such
elements into a paragraph. Boxes take the size of their contents by default
but can also be sized explicitly.

##  Example

    
    
    Refer to the docs
    #box(
      height: 9pt,
      image("docs.svg")
    )
    for more information.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/eB9NAzu2xk-O1miffozwKQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

box  (

width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  baseline  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  radius  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  outset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  clip  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The width of the box.

Boxes can have [ fractional ](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) widths, as the
example below demonstrates.

_Note:_ Currently, only boxes and only their widths might be fractionally
sized within paragraphs. Support for fractionally sized images, shapes, and
more might be added in the future.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    Line in #box(width: 1fr, line(length: 100%)) between.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dzJroqkPcQ8j1yD6nZSE0AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The height of the box.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` baseline `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

An amount to shift the box's baseline by.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    Image: #box(baseline: 40%, image("tiger.jpg", width: 2cm)).
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/jNZmXcLZQWKojb5Yhz3uEQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The box's background color. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-fill) for more details.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The box's border color. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-stroke) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` radius `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to round the box's corners. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-radius) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the box's content.

_Note:_ When the box contains text, its exact size depends on the current [
text edges ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-top-edge) .

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #rect(inset: 0pt)[Tight]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/GVDpvIL_te6KlSASD3i2EQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` outset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to expand the box's size without affecting the layout.

This is useful to prevent padding from affecting line layout. For a
generalized version of the example below, see the documentation for the [ raw
text's block parameter ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-block) .

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    An inline
    #box(
      fill: luma(235),
      inset: (x: 3pt, y: 0pt),
      outset: (y: 3pt),
      radius: 2pt,
    )[rectangle].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/68KQkm_HskMy1aDAbQWYdwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` clip `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to clip the content inside the box.

Clipping is useful when the box's content is larger than the box itself, as
any content that exceeds the box's bounds will be hidden.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #box(
      width: 50pt,
      height: 50pt,
      clip: true,
      image("tiger.jpg", width: 100pt, height: 100pt)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/RAY1IirASCSdH0pM4209bwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The contents of the box.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Block  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/block/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Column Break  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/colbreak/)



# **docs/reference/layout/place.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Place ](/docs/reference/layout/place/)

#  ` place ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Places content relatively to its parent container.

Placed content can be either overlaid (the default) or floating. Overlaid
content is aligned with the parent container according to the given [ `
alignment ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-alignment) , and shown
over any other content added so far in the container. Floating content is
placed at the top or bottom of the container, displacing other content down or
up respectively. In both cases, the content position can be adjusted with [ `
dx ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-dx) and [ ` dy `
](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-dy) offsets without affecting the
layout.

The parent can be any container such as a [ ` block `
](/docs/reference/layout/block/ "`block`") , [ ` box `
](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`") , [ ` rect `
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/ "`rect`") , etc. A top level ` place ` call
will place content directly in the text area of the current page. This can be
used for absolute positioning on the page: with a ` top + left ` [ ` alignment
` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-alignment) , the offsets ` dx `
and ` dy ` will set the position of the element's top left corner relatively
to the top left corner of the text area. For absolute positioning on the full
page including margins, you can use ` place ` in [ ` page.foreground `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-foreground) or [ ` page.background `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-background) .

##  Examples

    
    
    #set page(height: 120pt)
    Hello, world!
    
    #rect(
      width: 100%,
      height: 2cm,
      place(horizon + right, square()),
    )
    
    #place(
      top + left,
      dx: -5pt,
      square(size: 5pt, fill: red),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/b3Ue37sNl2HDpslyo5trfgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Effect on the position of other elements

Overlaid elements don't take space in the flow of content, but a ` place `
call inserts an invisible block-level element in the flow. This can affect the
layout by breaking the current paragraph. To avoid this, you can wrap the `
place ` call in a [ ` box ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`") when the
call is made in the middle of a paragraph. The alignment and offsets will then
be relative to this zero-size box. To make sure it doesn't interfere with
spacing, the box should be attached to a word using a word joiner.

For example, the following defines a function for attaching an annotation to
the following word:

    
    
    #let annotate(..args) = {
      box(place(..args))
      sym.wj
      h(0pt, weak: true)
    }
    
    A placed #annotate(square(), dy: 2pt)
    square in my text.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QIJqPsAAp5jqe-EB4bZF1gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The zero-width weak spacing serves to discard spaces between the function call
and the next word.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

place  (

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  scope  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  float  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  clearance  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  dx  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  dy  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` alignment `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Relative to which position in the parent container to place the content.

  * If ` float ` is ` false  ` , then this can be any alignment other than ` auto  ` . 
  * If ` float ` is ` true  ` , then this must be ` auto  ` , ` top ` , or ` bottom ` . 

When ` float ` is ` false  ` and no vertical alignment is specified, the
content is placed at the current position on the vertical axis.

Default: ` start `

###  ` scope `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Relative to which containing scope something is placed.

The parent scope is primarily used with figures and, for this reason, the
figure function has a mirrored [ ` scope ` parameter
](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-scope) . Nonetheless, it can also
be more generally useful to break out of the columns. A typical example would
be to [ create a single-column title section ](/docs/guides/page-setup-
guide/#columns) in a two-column document.

Note that parent-scoped placement is currently only supported if ` float ` is
` true  ` . This may change in the future.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  column  " ` |  Place into the current column.   
` "  parent  " ` |  Place relative to the parent, letting the content span over all columns.   
  
Default: ` "column"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 150pt, columns: 2)
    #place(
      top + center,
      scope: "parent",
      float: true,
      rect(width: 80%, fill: aqua),
    )
    
    #lorem(25)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9xhEXBaN2g3N9Vju7GUzFwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` float `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the placed element has floating layout.

Floating elements are positioned at the top or bottom of the parent container,
displacing in-flow content. They are always placed in the in-flow order
relative to each other, as well as before any content following a later [ `
place.flush ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#definitions-flush
"`place.flush`") element.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 150pt)
    #let note(where, body) = place(
      center + where,
      float: true,
      clearance: 6pt,
      rect(body),
    )
    
    #lorem(10)
    #note(bottom)[Bottom 1]
    #note(bottom)[Bottom 2]
    #lorem(40)
    #note(top)[Top]
    #lorem(10)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/t5SJ49ulSlCH5SgTOH20JAAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/t5SJ49ulSlCH5SgTOH20JAAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` clearance `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between the placed element and other elements in a floating
layout.

Has no effect if ` float ` is ` false  ` .

Default: ` 1.5em  `

###  ` dx `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The horizontal displacement of the placed content.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 100pt)
    #for i in range(16) {
      let amount = i * 4pt
      place(center, dx: amount - 32pt, dy: amount)[A]
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kAqGzNrSyPcytdYDwTZgaQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This does not affect the layout of in-flow content. In other words, the placed
content is treated as if it were wrapped in a [ ` move `
](/docs/reference/layout/move/ "`move`") element.

###  ` dy `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The vertical displacement of the placed content.

This does not affect the layout of in-flow content. In other words, the placed
content is treated as if it were wrapped in a [ ` move `
](/docs/reference/layout/move/ "`move`") element.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to place.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` flush ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Asks the layout algorithm to place pending floating elements before continuing
with the content.

This is useful for preventing floating figures from spilling into the next
section.

place  .  flush  (

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #lorem(15)
    
    #figure(
      rect(width: 100%, height: 50pt),
      placement: auto,
      caption: [A rectangle],
    )
    
    #place.flush()
    
    This text appears after the figure.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8qp5vfUImMtnXndzjQCsNQAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/8qp5vfUImMtnXndzjQCsNQAAAAAAAAAB.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Page Break  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Ratio  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)



# **docs/reference/layout/grid.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Grid ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/)

#  ` grid ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Arranges content in a grid.

The grid element allows you to arrange content in a grid. You can define the
number of rows and columns, as well as the size of the gutters between them.
There are multiple sizing modes for columns and rows that can be used to
create complex layouts.

While the grid and table elements work very similarly, they are intended for
different use cases and carry different semantics. The grid element is
intended for presentational and layout purposes, while the [ ` table `
](/docs/reference/model/table/) element is intended for, in broad terms,
presenting multiple related data points. In the future, Typst will annotate
its output such that screenreaders will announce content in ` table ` as
tabular while a grid's content will be announced no different than multiple
content blocks in the document flow. Set and show rules on one of these
elements do not affect the other.

A grid's sizing is determined by the track sizes specified in the arguments.
Because each of the sizing parameters accepts the same values, we will explain
them just once, here. Each sizing argument accepts an array of individual
track sizes. A track size is either:

  * ` auto  ` : The track will be sized to fit its contents. It will be at most as large as the remaining space. If there is more than one ` auto  ` track width, and together they claim more than the available space, the ` auto  ` tracks will fairly distribute the available space among themselves. 

  * A fixed or relative length (e.g. ` 10pt  ` or ` 20%  -  1cm  ` ): The track will be exactly of this size. 

  * A fractional length (e.g. ` 1fr  ` ): Once all other tracks have been sized, the remaining space will be divided among the fractional tracks according to their fractions. For example, if there are two fractional tracks, each with a fraction of ` 1fr  ` , they will each take up half of the remaining space. 

To specify a single track, the array can be omitted in favor of a single
value. To specify multiple ` auto  ` tracks, enter the number of tracks
instead of an array. For example, ` columns: ` ` 3  ` is equivalent to `
columns: ` ` (  auto  ,  auto  ,  auto  )  ` .

##  Examples

The example below demonstrates the different track sizing options. It also
shows how you can use [ ` grid.cell `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell) to make an individual cell
span two grid tracks.

    
    
    // We use `rect` to emphasize the
    // area of cells.
    #set rect(
      inset: 8pt,
      fill: rgb("e4e5ea"),
      width: 100%,
    )
    
    #grid(
      columns: (60pt, 1fr, 2fr),
      rows: (auto, 60pt),
      gutter: 3pt,
      rect[Fixed width, auto height],
      rect[1/3 of the remains],
      rect[2/3 of the remains],
      rect(height: 100%)[Fixed height],
      grid.cell(
        colspan: 2,
        image("tiger.jpg", width: 100%),
      ),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nU6HFHUP8AJwyw_E8LwJrgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also [ spread ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#spreading) an
array of strings or content into a grid to populate its cells.

    
    
    #grid(
      columns: 5,
      gutter: 5pt,
      ..range(25).map(str)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qtEXI9WWslJNDT0wWvWAggAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Styling the grid

The grid's appearance can be customized through different parameters. These
are the most important ones:

  * [ ` fill ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-fill) to give all cells a background 
  * [ ` align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-align) to change how cells are aligned 
  * [ ` inset ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-inset) to optionally add internal padding to each cell 
  * [ ` stroke ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-stroke) to optionally enable grid lines with a certain stroke 

If you need to override one of the above options for a single cell, you can
use the [ ` grid.cell ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell)
element. Likewise, you can override individual grid lines with the [ `
grid.hline ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-hline) and [ `
grid.vline ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-vline) elements.

Alternatively, if you need the appearance options to depend on a cell's
position (column and row), you may specify a function to ` fill ` or ` align `
of the form ` (column, row) => value ` . You may also use a show rule on [ `
grid.cell ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell) \- see that
element's examples or the examples below for more information.

Locating most of your styling in set and show rules is recommended, as it
keeps the grid's or table's actual usages clean and easy to read. It also
allows you to easily change the grid's appearance in one place.

###  Stroke styling precedence

There are three ways to set the stroke of a grid cell: through [ ` grid  .
cell ` 's ` stroke ` field ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell-
stroke) , by using [ ` grid  .  hline `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-hline) and [ ` grid  .  vline `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-vline) , or by setting the [ ` grid
` 's ` stroke ` field ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-stroke) . When
multiple of these settings are present and conflict, the ` hline ` and ` vline
` settings take the highest precedence, followed by the ` cell ` settings, and
finally the ` grid ` settings.

Furthermore, strokes of a repeated grid header or footer will take precedence
over regular cell strokes.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

grid  (

columns  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  rows  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  gutter  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  column-gutter  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  row-gutter  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  align  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` columns `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column sizes.

Either specify a track size array or provide an integer to create a grid with
that many ` auto  ` -sized columns. Note that opposed to rows and gutters,
providing a single track size will only ever create a single column.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` rows `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row sizes.

If there are more cells than fit the defined rows, the last row is repeated
until there are no more cells.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` gutter `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gaps between rows and columns.

If there are more gutters than defined sizes, the last gutter is repeated.

This is a shorthand to set ` column-gutter ` and ` row-gutter ` to the same
value.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` column-gutter `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gaps between columns.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` row-gutter `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gaps between rows.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the cells.

This can be a color or a function that returns a color. The function receives
the cells' column and row indices, starting from zero. This can be used to
implement striped grids.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #grid(
      fill: (x, y) =>
        if calc.even(x + y) { luma(230) }
        else { white },
      align: center + horizon,
      columns: 4,
      inset: 2pt,
      [X], [O], [X], [O],
      [O], [X], [O], [X],
      [X], [O], [X], [O],
      [O], [X], [O], [X],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YWpStHlSHlCZTmUmBJs9XQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` align `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to align the cells' content.

This can either be a single alignment, an array of alignments (corresponding
to each column) or a function that returns an alignment. The function receives
the cells' column and row indices, starting from zero. If set to ` auto  ` ,
the outer alignment is used.

You can find an example for this argument at the [ ` table.align `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-align) parameter.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) the cells.

Grids have no strokes by default, which can be changed by setting this option
to the desired stroke.

If it is necessary to place lines which can cross spacing between cells
produced by the ` gutter ` option, or to override the stroke between multiple
specific cells, consider specifying one or more of [ ` grid.hline `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-hline) and [ ` grid.vline `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-vline) alongside your grid cells.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 13em, width: 26em)
    
    #let cv(..jobs) = grid(
        columns: 2,
        inset: 5pt,
        stroke: (x, y) => if x == 0 and y > 0 {
          (right: (
            paint: luma(180),
            thickness: 1.5pt,
            dash: "dotted"
          ))
        },
        grid.header(grid.cell(colspan: 2)[
          *Professional Experience*
          #box(width: 1fr, line(length: 100%, stroke: luma(180)))
        ]),
        ..{
          let last = none
          for job in jobs.pos() {
            (
              if job.year != last [*#job.year*],
              [
                *#job.company* - #job.role _(#job.timeframe)_ \
                #job.details
              ]
            )
            last = job.year
          }
        }
      )
    
      #cv(
        (
          year: 2012,
          company: [Pear Seed & Co.],
          role: [Lead Engineer],
          timeframe: [Jul - Dec],
          details: [
            - Raised engineers from 3x to 10x
            - Did a great job
          ],
        ),
        (
          year: 2012,
          company: [Mega Corp.],
          role: [VP of Sales],
          timeframe: [Mar - Jun],
          details: [- Closed tons of customers],
        ),
        (
          year: 2013,
          company: [Tiny Co.],
          role: [CEO],
          timeframe: [Jan - Dec],
          details: [- Delivered 4x more shareholder value],
        ),
        (
          year: 2014,
          company: [Glorbocorp Ltd],
          role: [CTO],
          timeframe: [Jan - Mar],
          details: [- Drove containerization forward],
        ),
      )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5kfvlcbAPUFkWJtXr3FdMgAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/5kfvlcbAPUFkWJtXr3FdMgAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the cells' content.

You can find an example for this argument at the [ ` table.inset `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-inset) parameter.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The contents of the grid cells, plus any extra grid lines specified with the [
` grid.hline ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-hline) and [ `
grid.vline ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-vline) elements.

The cells are populated in row-major order.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` cell ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A cell in the grid. You can use this function in the argument list of a grid
to override grid style properties for an individual cell or manually
positioning it within the grid. You can also use this function in show rules
to apply certain styles to multiple cells at once.

For example, you can override the position and stroke for a single cell:

grid  .  cell  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  x  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  y  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  colspan  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  rowspan  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  align  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  inset  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  breakable  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #set text(15pt, font: "Noto Sans Symbols 2")
    #show regex("[â-âï¸]"): set text(fill: rgb("21212A"))
    #show regex("[â-â]"): set text(fill: rgb("111015"))
    
    #grid(
      fill: (x, y) => rgb(
        if calc.odd(x + y) { "7F8396" }
        else { "EFF0F3" }
      ),
      columns: (1em,) * 8,
      rows: 1em,
      align: center + horizon,
    
      [â], [â], [â], [â], [â], [â], [â], [â],
      [â], [â], [â], [â], [],  [â], [â], [â],
      grid.cell(
        x: 4, y: 3,
        stroke: blue.transparentize(60%)
      )[â],
    
      ..(grid.cell(y: 6)[â],) * 8,
      ..([â], [â], [â], [â], [â], [â], [â], [â])
        .map(grid.cell.with(y: 7)),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hagMogxzgYo1z-9CqYbmiQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You may also apply a show rule on ` grid.cell ` to style all cells at once,
which allows you, for example, to apply styles based on a cell's position.
Refer to the examples of the [ ` table.cell `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell) element to learn more about
this.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The cell's body.

####  ` x `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's column (zero-indexed). This field may be used in show rules to
style a cell depending on its column.

You may override this field to pick in which column the cell must be placed.
If no row ( ` y ` ) is chosen, the cell will be placed in the first row
(starting at row 0) with that column available (or a new row if none). If both
` x ` and ` y ` are chosen, however, the cell will be placed in that exact
position. An error is raised if that position is not available (thus, it is
usually wise to specify cells with a custom position before cells with
automatic positions).

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #let circ(c) = circle(
        fill: c, width: 5mm
    )
    
    #grid(
      columns: 4,
      rows: 7mm,
      stroke: .5pt + blue,
      align: center + horizon,
      inset: 1mm,
    
      grid.cell(x: 2, y: 2, circ(aqua)),
      circ(yellow),
      grid.cell(x: 3, circ(green)),
      circ(black),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1ClWJM7tWFhsIyNZJlD1owAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` y `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's row (zero-indexed). This field may be used in show rules to style a
cell depending on its row.

You may override this field to pick in which row the cell must be placed. If
no column ( ` x ` ) is chosen, the cell will be placed in the first column
(starting at column 0) available in the chosen row. If all columns in the
chosen row are already occupied, an error is raised.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #let tri(c) = polygon.regular(
      fill: c,
      size: 5mm,
      vertices: 3,
    )
    
    #grid(
      columns: 2,
      stroke: blue,
      inset: 1mm,
    
      tri(black),
      grid.cell(y: 1, tri(teal)),
      grid.cell(y: 1, tri(red)),
      grid.cell(y: 2, tri(orange))
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KqESjHcjVY-CskMVImXGSAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` colspan `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of columns spanned by this cell.

Default: ` 1  `

####  ` rowspan `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of rows spanned by this cell.

Default: ` 1  `

####  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ fill ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-fill) override.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` align `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-align)
override.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` inset `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ inset ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-inset) override.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ stroke ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-stroke)
override.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

####  ` breakable `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether rows spanned by this cell can be placed in different pages. When equal
to ` auto  ` , a cell spanning only fixed-size rows is unbreakable, while a
cell spanning at least one ` auto  ` -sized row is breakable.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` hline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal line in the grid.

Overrides any per-cell stroke, including stroke specified through the grid's `
stroke ` field. Can cross spacing between cells created through the grid's `
column-gutter ` option.

An example for this function can be found at the [ ` table.hline `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline) element.

grid  .  hline  (

y  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  start  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  end  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  stroke  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  position  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` y `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row above which the horizontal line is placed (zero-indexed). If the `
position ` field is set to ` bottom ` , the line is placed below the row with
the given index instead (see that field's docs for details).

Specifying ` auto  ` causes the line to be placed at the row below the last
automatically positioned cell (that is, cell without coordinate overrides)
before the line among the grid's children. If there is no such cell before the
line, it is placed at the top of the grid (row 0). Note that specifying for
this option exactly the total amount of rows in the grid causes this
horizontal line to override the bottom border of the grid, while a value of 0
overrides the top border.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column at which the horizontal line starts (zero-indexed, inclusive).

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column before which the horizontal line ends (zero-indexed, exclusive).
Therefore, the horizontal line will be drawn up to and across column ` end - 1
` .

A value equal to ` none  ` or to the amount of columns causes it to extend all
the way towards the end of the grid.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The line's stroke.

Specifying ` none  ` removes any lines previously placed across this line's
range, including hlines or per-cell stroke below it.

Default: ` 1pt  +  black `

####  ` position `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The position at which the line is placed, given its row ( ` y ` ) - either `
top ` to draw above it or ` bottom ` to draw below it.

This setting is only relevant when row gutter is enabled (and shouldn't be
used otherwise - prefer just increasing the ` y ` field by one instead), since
then the position below a row becomes different from the position above the
next row due to the spacing between both.

Default: ` top `

###  ` vline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A vertical line in the grid.

Overrides any per-cell stroke, including stroke specified through the grid's `
stroke ` field. Can cross spacing between cells created through the grid's `
row-gutter ` option.

grid  .  vline  (

x  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  start  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  end  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  stroke  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  position  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` x `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column before which the horizontal line is placed (zero-indexed). If the `
position ` field is set to ` end ` , the line is placed after the column with
the given index instead (see that field's docs for details).

Specifying ` auto  ` causes the line to be placed at the column after the last
automatically positioned cell (that is, cell without coordinate overrides)
before the line among the grid's children. If there is no such cell before the
line, it is placed before the grid's first column (column 0). Note that
specifying for this option exactly the total amount of columns in the grid
causes this vertical line to override the end border of the grid (right in
LTR, left in RTL), while a value of 0 overrides the start border (left in LTR,
right in RTL).

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row at which the vertical line starts (zero-indexed, inclusive).

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row on top of which the vertical line ends (zero-indexed, exclusive).
Therefore, the vertical line will be drawn up to and across row ` end - 1 ` .

A value equal to ` none  ` or to the amount of rows causes it to extend all
the way towards the bottom of the grid.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The line's stroke.

Specifying ` none  ` removes any lines previously placed across this line's
range, including vlines or per-cell stroke below it.

Default: ` 1pt  +  black `

####  ` position `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The position at which the line is placed, given its column ( ` x ` ) - either
` start ` to draw before it or ` end ` to draw after it.

The values ` left ` and ` right ` are also accepted, but discouraged as they
cause your grid to be inconsistent between left-to-right and right-to-left
documents.

This setting is only relevant when column gutter is enabled (and shouldn't be
used otherwise - prefer just increasing the ` x ` field by one instead), since
then the position after a column becomes different from the position before
the next column due to the spacing between both.

Default: ` start `

###  ` header ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A repeatable grid header.

If ` repeat ` is set to ` true ` , the header will be repeated across pages.
For an example, refer to the [ ` table.header `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-header) element and the [ `
grid.stroke ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-stroke) parameter.

grid  .  header  (

repeat  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` repeat `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether this header should be repeated across pages.

Default: ` true  `

####  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The cells and lines within the header.

###  ` footer ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A repeatable grid footer.

Just like the [ ` grid.header ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-
header) element, the footer can repeat itself on every page of the table.

No other grid cells may be placed after the footer.

grid  .  footer  (

repeat  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` repeat `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether this footer should be repeated across pages.

Default: ` true  `

####  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The cells and lines within the footer.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Fraction  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Hide  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/hide/)



# **docs/reference/layout/ratio.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

#  ratio

A ratio of a whole.

Written as a number, followed by a percent sign.

##  Example

    
    
    #set align(center)
    #scale(x: 150%)[
      Scaled apart.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xEgSJZQe3kQz-XQhwaSthwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Place  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/place/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Relative Length  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)



# **docs/reference/layout/measure.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Measure ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/)

#  ` measure ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Measures the layouted size of content.

The ` measure ` function lets you determine the layouted size of content. By
default an infinite space is assumed, so the measured dimensions may not
necessarily match the final dimensions of the content. If you want to measure
in the current layout dimensions, you can combine ` measure ` and [ ` layout `
](/docs/reference/layout/layout/ "`layout`") .

##  Example

The same content can have a different size depending on the [ context
](/docs/reference/context/ "context") that it is placed into. In the example
below, the ` #  content  ` is of course bigger when we increase the font size.

    
    
    #let content = [Hello!]
    #content
    #set text(14pt)
    #content
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/AhP31noWwrcSQXbwnmO-hwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

For this reason, you can only measure when context is available.

    
    
    #let thing(body) = context {
      let size = measure(body)
      [Width of "#body" is #size.width]
    }
    
    #thing[Hey] \
    #thing[Welcome]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/-y6AuN3J3rl7Gz1x_VRjjwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The measure function returns a dictionary with the entries ` width ` and `
height ` , both of type [ ` length ` ](/docs/reference/layout/length/
"`length`") .

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

measure  (

width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) styles  ,

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

The width available to layout the content.

Setting this to ` auto  ` indicates infinite available width.

Note that using the ` width ` and ` height ` parameters of this function is
different from measuring a sized [ ` block ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/
"`block`") containing the content. In the following example, the former will
get the dimensions of the inner content instead of the dimensions of the
block.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #context measure(lorem(100), width: 400pt)
    
    #context measure(block(lorem(100), width: 400pt))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kGPOcZfxzWEfqWzKQCJaFgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

The height available to layout the content.

Setting this to ` auto  ` indicates infinite available height.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` content `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content whose size to measure.

###  ` styles `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  styles

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

_Compatibility:_ This argument is deprecated. It only exists for compatibility
with Typst 0.10 and lower and shouldn't be used anymore.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Length  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Move  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/move/)



# **docs/reference/layout/page.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Page ](/docs/reference/layout/page/)

#  ` page ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Layouts its child onto one or multiple pages.

Although this function is primarily used in set rules to affect page
properties, it can also be used to explicitly render its argument onto a set
of pages of its own.

Pages can be set to use ` auto  ` as their width or height. In this case, the
pages will grow to fit their content on the respective axis.

The [ Guide for Page Setup ](/docs/guides/page-setup-guide/) explains how to
use this and related functions to set up a document with many examples.

##  Example

    
    
    #set page("us-letter")
    
    There you go, US friends!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Gsn3vxGfYJJE0DFa5w6toQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

page  (

paper  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  width  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  flipped  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  margin  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  binding  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  columns  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  numbering  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  number-align  :  [
alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  header  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  header-ascent  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  footer  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  footer-descent  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  background  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  foreground  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` paper `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A standard paper size to set width and height.

This is just a shorthand for setting ` width ` and ` height ` and, as such,
cannot be retrieved in a context expression.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View options

Default: ` "a4"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View paper sizes

` "  a0  " ` , ` "  a1  " ` , ` "  a2  " ` , ` "  a3  " ` , ` "  a4  " ` , ` "
a5  " ` , ` "  a6  " ` , ` "  a7  " ` , ` "  a8  " ` , ` "  a9  " ` , ` "  a10
" ` , ` "  a11  " ` , ` "  iso-b1  " ` , ` "  iso-b2  " ` , ` "  iso-b3  " ` ,
` "  iso-b4  " ` , ` "  iso-b5  " ` , ` "  iso-b6  " ` , ` "  iso-b7  " ` , `
"  iso-b8  " ` , ` "  iso-c3  " ` , ` "  iso-c4  " ` , ` "  iso-c5  " ` , ` "
iso-c6  " ` , ` "  iso-c7  " ` , ` "  iso-c8  " ` , ` "  din-d3  " ` , ` "
din-d4  " ` , ` "  din-d5  " ` , ` "  din-d6  " ` , ` "  din-d7  " ` , ` "
din-d8  " ` , ` "  sis-g5  " ` , ` "  sis-e5  " ` , ` "  ansi-a  " ` , ` "
ansi-b  " ` , ` "  ansi-c  " ` , ` "  ansi-d  " ` , ` "  ansi-e  " ` , ` "
arch-a  " ` , ` "  arch-b  " ` , ` "  arch-c  " ` , ` "  arch-d  " ` , ` "
arch-e1  " ` , ` "  arch-e  " ` , ` "  jis-b0  " ` , ` "  jis-b1  " ` , ` "
jis-b2  " ` , ` "  jis-b3  " ` , ` "  jis-b4  " ` , ` "  jis-b5  " ` , ` "
jis-b6  " ` , ` "  jis-b7  " ` , ` "  jis-b8  " ` , ` "  jis-b9  " ` , ` "
jis-b10  " ` , ` "  jis-b11  " ` , ` "  sac-d0  " ` , ` "  sac-d1  " ` , ` "
sac-d2  " ` , ` "  sac-d3  " ` , ` "  sac-d4  " ` , ` "  sac-d5  " ` , ` "
sac-d6  " ` , ` "  iso-id-1  " ` , ` "  iso-id-2  " ` , ` "  iso-id-3  " ` , `
"  asia-f4  " ` , ` "  jp-shiroku-ban-4  " ` , ` "  jp-shiroku-ban-5  " ` , `
"  jp-shiroku-ban-6  " ` , ` "  jp-kiku-4  " ` , ` "  jp-kiku-5  " ` , ` "
jp-business-card  " ` , ` "  cn-business-card  " ` , ` "  eu-business-card  "
` , ` "  fr-telliÃ¨re  " ` , ` "  fr-couronne-Ã©criture  " ` , ` "  fr-
couronne-Ã©dition  " ` , ` "  fr-raisin  " ` , ` "  fr-carrÃ©  " ` , ` "  fr-
jÃ©sus  " ` , ` "  uk-brief  " ` , ` "  uk-draft  " ` , ` "  uk-foolscap  " `
, ` "  uk-quarto  " ` , ` "  uk-crown  " ` , ` "  uk-book-a  " ` , ` "  uk-
book-b  " ` , ` "  us-letter  " ` , ` "  us-legal  " ` , ` "  us-tabloid  " `
, ` "  us-executive  " ` , ` "  us-foolscap-folio  " ` , ` "  us-statement  "
` , ` "  us-ledger  " ` , ` "  us-oficio  " ` , ` "  us-gov-letter  " ` , ` "
us-gov-legal  " ` , ` "  us-business-card  " ` , ` "  us-digest  " ` , ` "
us-trade  " ` , ` "  newspaper-compact  " ` , ` "  newspaper-berliner  " ` , `
"  newspaper-broadsheet  " ` , ` "  presentation-16-9  " ` , ` "
presentation-4-3  " `

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The width of the page.

Default: ` 595.28pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(
      width: 3cm,
      margin: (x: 0cm),
    )
    
    #for i in range(3) {
      box(square(width: 1cm))
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xcDLR5uuky5aEnJroP3JfQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The height of the page.

If this is set to ` auto  ` , page breaks can only be triggered manually by
inserting a [ page break ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/) . Most examples
throughout this documentation use ` auto  ` for the height of the page to
dynamically grow and shrink to fit their content.

Default: ` 841.89pt  `

###  ` flipped `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the page is flipped into landscape orientation.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(
      "us-business-card",
      flipped: true,
      fill: rgb("f2e5dd"),
    )
    
    #set align(bottom + end)
    #text(14pt)[*Sam H. Richards*] \
    _Procurement Manager_
    
    #set text(10pt)
    17 Main Street \
    New York, NY 10001 \
    +1 555 555 5555
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/NEPMLGLUMuCwXHZB6iu3CAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` margin `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The page's margins.

  * ` auto  ` : The margins are set automatically to 2.5/21 times the smaller dimension of the page. This results in 2.5cm margins for an A4 page. 
  * A single length: The same margin on all sides. 
  * A dictionary: With a dictionary, the margins can be set individually. The dictionary can contain the following keys in order of precedence: 
    * ` top ` : The top margin. 
    * ` right ` : The right margin. 
    * ` bottom ` : The bottom margin. 
    * ` left ` : The left margin. 
    * ` inside ` : The margin at the inner side of the page (where the [ binding ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-binding) is). 
    * ` outside ` : The margin at the outer side of the page (opposite to the [ binding ](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-binding) ). 
    * ` x ` : The horizontal margins. 
    * ` y ` : The vertical margins. 
    * ` rest ` : The margins on all sides except those for which the dictionary explicitly sets a size. 

The values for ` left ` and ` right ` are mutually exclusive with the values
for ` inside ` and ` outside ` .

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(
     width: 3cm,
     height: 4cm,
     margin: (x: 8pt, y: 4pt),
    )
    
    #rect(
      width: 100%,
      height: 100%,
      fill: aqua,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OMqyTIx7yDwyNT0DUFniFAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` binding `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

On which side the pages will be bound.

  * ` auto  ` : Equivalent to ` left ` if the [ text direction ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-dir) is left-to-right and ` right ` if it is right-to-left. 
  * ` left ` : Bound on the left side. 
  * ` right ` : Bound on the right side. 

This affects the meaning of the ` inside ` and ` outside ` options for
margins.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` columns `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How many columns the page has.

If you need to insert columns into a page or other container, you can also use
the [ ` columns ` function ](/docs/reference/layout/columns/) .

Default: ` 1  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(columns: 2, height: 4.8cm)
    Climate change is one of the most
    pressing issues of our time, with
    the potential to devastate
    communities, ecosystems, and
    economies around the world. It's
    clear that we need to take urgent
    action to reduce our carbon
    emissions and mitigate the impacts
    of a rapidly changing climate.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Qem_NgF0Oyp_LY8JRVFBWQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The page's background fill.

Setting this to something non-transparent instructs the printer to color the
complete page. If you are considering larger production runs, it may be more
environmentally friendly and cost-effective to source pre-dyed pages and not
set this property.

When set to ` none  ` , the background becomes transparent. Note that PDF
pages will still appear with a (usually white) background in viewers, but they
are actually transparent. (If you print them, no color is used for the
background.)

The default of ` auto  ` results in ` none  ` for PDF output, and ` white `
for PNG and SVG.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(fill: rgb("444352"))
    #set text(fill: rgb("fdfdfd"))
    *Dark mode enabled.*
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PLEs9jVtSM3FxsoATa6SAAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` numbering `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ number ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) the pages.

If an explicit ` footer ` (or ` header ` for top-aligned numbering) is given,
the numbering is ignored.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(
      height: 100pt,
      margin: (top: 16pt, bottom: 24pt),
      numbering: "1 / 1",
    )
    
    #lorem(48)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/RY8f9OM2hb3s_Q3tS3fVgwAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/RY8f9OM2hb3s_Q3tS3fVgwAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` number-align `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The alignment of the page numbering.

If the vertical component is ` top ` , the numbering is placed into the header
and if it is ` bottom ` , it is placed in the footer. Horizon alignment is
forbidden. If an explicit matching ` header ` or ` footer ` is given, the
numbering is ignored.

Default: ` center  +  bottom `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(
      margin: (top: 16pt, bottom: 24pt),
      numbering: "1",
      number-align: right,
    )
    
    #lorem(30)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ErvjjUjlAuxqdtzputqWQAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` header `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The page's header. Fills the top margin of each page.

  * Content: Shows the content as the header. 
  * ` auto  ` : Shows the page number if a ` numbering ` is set and ` number-align ` is ` top ` . 
  * ` none  ` : Suppresses the header. 

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par(justify: true)
    #set page(
      margin: (top: 32pt, bottom: 20pt),
      header: [
        #set text(8pt)
        #smallcaps[Typst Academcy]
        #h(1fr) _Exercise Sheet 3_
      ],
    )
    
    #lorem(19)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nNqGFtf4s-uyEOhXjup1zgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` header-ascent `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount the header is raised into the top margin.

Default: ` 30%  +  0pt  `

###  ` footer `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The page's footer. Fills the bottom margin of each page.

  * Content: Shows the content as the footer. 
  * ` auto  ` : Shows the page number if a ` numbering ` is set and ` number-align ` is ` bottom ` . 
  * ` none  ` : Suppresses the footer. 

For just a page number, the ` numbering ` property typically suffices. If you
want to create a custom footer but still display the page number, you can
directly access the [ page counter ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) .

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par(justify: true)
    #set page(
      height: 100pt,
      margin: 20pt,
      footer: context [
        #set align(right)
        #set text(8pt)
        #counter(page).display(
          "1 of I",
          both: true,
        )
      ]
    )
    
    #lorem(48)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/GK4h2efX4DepjGGiUjzejQAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/GK4h2efX4DepjGGiUjzejQAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` footer-descent `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount the footer is lowered into the bottom margin.

Default: ` 30%  +  0pt  `

###  ` background `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Content in the page's background.

This content will be placed behind the page's body. It can be used to place a
background image or a watermark.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(background: rotate(24deg,
      text(18pt, fill: rgb("FFCBC4"))[
        *CONFIDENTIAL*
      ]
    ))
    
    = Typst's secret plans
    In the year 2023, we plan to take
    over the world (of typesetting).
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/edMhg75ws-GIgq5IJNJbrQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` foreground `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Content in the page's foreground.

This content will overlay the page's body.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(foreground: text(24pt)[ð¥¸])
    
    Reviewer 2 has marked our paper
    "Weak Reject" because they did
    not understand our approach...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/UxB2Tju0zg4nh85hMFZNOwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The contents of the page(s).

Multiple pages will be created if the content does not fit on a single page. A
new page with the page properties prior to the function invocation will be
created after the body has been typeset.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Padding  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/pad/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Page
Break  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/pagebreak/)



# **docs/reference/layout/layout.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/layout/)

#  ` layout `

Provides access to the current outer container's (or page's, if none)
dimensions (width and height).

Accepts a function that receives a single parameter, which is a dictionary
with keys ` width ` and ` height ` , both of type [ ` length `
](/docs/reference/layout/length/ "`length`") . The function is provided [
context ](/docs/reference/context/ "context") , meaning you don't need to use
it in combination with the ` context ` keyword. This is why [ ` measure `
](/docs/reference/layout/measure/ "`measure`") can be called in the example
below.

    
    
    #let text = lorem(30)
    #layout(size => [
      #let (height,) = measure(
        block(width: size.width, text),
      )
      This text is #height high with
      the current page width: \
      #text
    ])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/SI9ZxtAftdvELQJYlwu_CgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Note that the ` layout ` function forces its contents into a [ block
](/docs/reference/layout/block/ "block") -level container, so placement
relative to the page or pagebreaks are not possible within it.

If the ` layout ` call is placed inside a box with a width of ` 800pt  ` and a
height of ` 400pt  ` , then the specified function will be given the argument
` (  width  :  800pt  ,  height  :  400pt  )  ` . If it is placed directly
into the page, it receives the page's dimensions minus its margins. This is
mostly useful in combination with [ measurement
](/docs/reference/layout/measure/) .

You can also use this function to resolve [ ` ratio `
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") to fixed lengths. This might come
in handy if you're building your own layout abstractions.

    
    
    #layout(size => {
      let half = 50% * size.width
      [Half a page is #half wide.]
    })
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1AoOPrEARH2i9ZcdcamicAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Note that the width or height provided by ` layout ` will be infinite if the
corresponding page dimension is set to ` auto  ` .

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

layout  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` func `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

A function to call with the outer container's size. Its return value is
displayed in the document.

The container's size is given as a [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/ "dictionary") with the keys ` width
` and ` height ` .

This function is called once for each time the content returned by ` layout `
appears in the document. This makes it possible to generate content that
depends on the dimensions of its container.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Hide  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/hide/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Length  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)



# **docs/reference/layout/angle.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

#  angle

An angle describing a rotation.

Typst supports the following angular units:

  * Degrees: ` 180deg  `
  * Radians: ` 3.14rad  `

##  Example

    
    
    #rotate(10deg)[Hello there!]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bDyrcLTzr2eRmGWeZRN2_QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` rad `

Converts this angle to radians.

self  .  rad  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` deg `

Converts this angle to degrees.

self  .  deg  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Alignment  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Block  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/block/)



# **docs/reference/layout/length.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

#  length

A size or distance, possibly expressed with contextual units.

Typst supports the following length units:

  * Points: ` 72pt  `
  * Millimeters: ` 254mm  `
  * Centimeters: ` 2.54cm  `
  * Inches: ` 1in  `
  * Relative to font size: ` 2.5em  `

You can multiply lengths with and divide them by integers and floats.

##  Example

    
    
    #rect(width: 20pt)
    #rect(width: 2em)
    #rect(width: 1in)
    
    #(3em + 5pt).em \
    #(20pt).em \
    #(40em + 2pt).abs \
    #(5em).abs
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gpwKHS7y2wIB7BIxGEXoMwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Fields

  * ` abs ` : A length with just the absolute component of the current length (that is, excluding the ` em ` component). 
  * ` em ` : The amount of ` em ` units in this length, as a [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "float") . 

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` pt `

Converts this length to points.

Fails with an error if this length has non-zero ` em ` units (such as ` 5em +
2pt ` instead of just ` 2pt ` ). Use the ` abs ` field (such as in ` (5em +
2pt).abs.pt() ` ) to ignore the ` em ` component of the length (thus
converting only its absolute component).

self  .  pt  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` mm `

Converts this length to millimeters.

Fails with an error if this length has non-zero ` em ` units. See the [ ` pt `
](/docs/reference/layout/length/#definitions-pt) method for more details.

self  .  mm  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` cm `

Converts this length to centimeters.

Fails with an error if this length has non-zero ` em ` units. See the [ ` pt `
](/docs/reference/layout/length/#definitions-pt) method for more details.

self  .  cm  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` inches `

Converts this length to inches.

Fails with an error if this length has non-zero ` em ` units. See the [ ` pt `
](/docs/reference/layout/length/#definitions-pt) method for more details.

self  .  inches  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` to-absolute `

Resolve this length to an absolute length.

self  .  to-absolute  (

)  -> [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

    
    
    #set text(size: 12pt)
    #context [
      #(6pt).to-absolute() \
      #(6pt + 10em).to-absolute() \
      #(10em).to-absolute()
    ]
    
    #set text(size: 6pt)
    #context [
      #(6pt).to-absolute() \
      #(6pt + 10em).to-absolute() \
      #(10em).to-absolute()
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/O8f4mxTZz-ziS7eclGAyvgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Layout  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/layout/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Measure  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/measure/)



# **docs/reference/introspection/here.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Here ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/)

#  ` here ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Provides the current location in the document.

You can think of ` here ` as a low-level building block that directly extracts
the current location from the active [ context ](/docs/reference/context/
"context") . Some other functions use it internally: For instance, ` counter
.  get  (  )  ` is equivalent to ` counter  .  at  (  here  (  )  )  ` .

Within show rules on [ locatable
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#locatable) elements, ` here  (  )  `
will match the location of the shown element.

If you want to display the current page number, refer to the documentation of
the [ ` counter ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/ "`counter`") type.
While ` here ` can be used to determine the physical page number, typically
you want the logical page number that may, for instance, have been reset after
a preface.

##  Examples

Determining the current position in the document in combination with the [ `
position ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#definitions-position)
method:

    
    
    #context [
      I am located at
      #here().position()
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5PrDc8FIHOrLs_qUjTj6iwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Running a [ query ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "query") for elements
before the current position:

    
    
    = Introduction
    = Background
    
    There are
    #context query(
      selector(heading).before(here())
    ).len()
    headings before me.
    
    = Conclusion
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5DWH6TcZBrEjuGuSwKqf8AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Refer to the [ ` selector ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/
"`selector`") type for more details on before/after selectors.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

here  (

)  -> [ location ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Counter  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Locate  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/)



# **docs/reference/introspection/location.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Location ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

#  location

Identifies an element in the document.

A location uniquely identifies an element in the document and lets you access
its absolute position on the pages. You can retrieve the current location with
the [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") function and
the location of a queried or shown element with the [ ` location() `
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-location) method on
content.

##  Locatable elements

Currently, only a subset of element functions is locatable. Aside from
headings and figures, this includes equations, references, quotes and all
elements with an explicit label. As a result, you _can_ query for e.g. [ `
strong ` ](/docs/reference/model/strong/ "`strong`") elements, but you will
find only those that have an explicit label attached to them. This limitation
will be resolved in the future.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` page `

Returns the page number for this location.

Note that this does not return the value of the [ page counter
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) at this location, but the true page
number (starting from one).

If you want to know the value of the page counter, use ` counter  (  page  )
.  at  (  loc  )  ` instead.

Can be used with [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") to
retrieve the physical page position of the current context:

self  .  page  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #context [
      I am located on
      page #here().page()
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0ToVSLLUesTLkEw_YsnJkwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` position `

Returns a dictionary with the page number and the x, y position for this
location. The page number starts at one and the coordinates are measured from
the top-left of the page.

If you only need the page number, use ` page() ` instead as it allows Typst to
skip unnecessary work.

self  .  position  (

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

###  ` page-numbering `

Returns the page numbering pattern of the page at this location. This can be
used when displaying the page counter in order to obtain the local numbering.
This is useful if you are building custom indices or outlines.

If the page numbering is set to ` none  ` at that location, this function
returns ` none  ` .

self  .  page-numbering  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Locate  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Metadata  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/metadata/)



# **docs/reference/introspection/counter.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Counter ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/)

#  counter

Counts through pages, elements, and more.

With the counter function, you can access and modify counters for pages,
headings, figures, and more. Moreover, you can define custom counters for
other things you want to count.

Since counters change throughout the course of the document, their current
value is _contextual._ It is recommended to read the chapter on [ context
](/docs/reference/context/ "context") before continuing here.

##  Accessing a counter

To access the raw value of a counter, we can use the [ ` get `
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-get) function. This
function returns an [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") :
Counters can have multiple levels (in the case of headings for sections,
subsections, and so on), and each item in the array corresponds to one level.

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    
    = Introduction
    Raw value of heading counter is
    #context counter(heading).get()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/jqVSznl_yGBcNN9ecF8OVAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Displaying a counter

Often, we want to display the value of a counter in a more human-readable way.
To do that, we can call the [ ` display `
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#definitions-display) function on the
counter. This function retrieves the current counter value and formats it
either with a provided or with an automatically inferred [ numbering
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/ "numbering") .

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    
    = Introduction
    Some text here.
    
    = Background
    The current value is: #context {
      counter(heading).display()
    }
    
    Or in roman numerals: #context {
      counter(heading).display("I")
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/7EUi61p1PXmzQyka_2NqiAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Modifying a counter

To modify a counter, you can use the ` step ` and ` update ` methods:

  * The ` step ` method increases the value of the counter by one. Because counters can have multiple levels , it optionally takes a ` level ` argument. If given, the counter steps at the given depth. 

  * The ` update ` method allows you to arbitrarily modify the counter. In its basic form, you give it an integer (or an array for multiple levels). For more flexibility, you can instead also give it a function that receives the current value and returns a new value. 

The heading counter is stepped before the heading is displayed, so ` Analysis
` gets the number seven even though the counter is at six after the second
update.

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    
    = Introduction
    #counter(heading).step()
    
    = Background
    #counter(heading).update(3)
    #counter(heading).update(n => n * 2)
    
    = Analysis
    Let's skip 7.1.
    #counter(heading).step(level: 2)
    
    == Analysis
    Still at #context {
      counter(heading).display()
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/EOYqv5YWVpmiQyBJoYpqQAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Page counter

The page counter is special. It is automatically stepped at each pagebreak.
But like other counters, you can also step it manually. For example, you could
have Roman page numbers for your preface, then switch to Arabic page numbers
for your main content and reset the page counter to one.

    
    
    #set page(numbering: "(i)")
    
    = Preface
    The preface is numbered with
    roman numerals.
    
    #set page(numbering: "1 / 1")
    #counter(page).update(1)
    
    = Main text
    Here, the counter is reset to one.
    We also display both the current
    page and total number of pages in
    Arabic numbers.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PDCorO6nPZEoa3HjHUVgRwAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/PDCorO6nPZEoa3HjHUVgRwAAAAAAAAAB.png)

##  Custom counters

To define your own counter, call the ` counter ` function with a string as a
key. This key identifies the counter globally.

    
    
    #let mine = counter("mycounter")
    #context mine.display() \
    #mine.step()
    #context mine.display() \
    #mine.update(c => c * 3)
    #context mine.display()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/CxXLMyCvJp2FnmacPN3WUgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  How to step

When you define and use a custom counter, in general, you should first step
the counter and then display it. This way, the stepping behaviour of a counter
can depend on the element it is stepped for. If you were writing a counter
for, let's say, theorems, your theorem's definition would thus first include
the counter step and only then display the counter and the theorem's contents.

    
    
    #let c = counter("theorem")
    #let theorem(it) = block[
      #c.step()
      *Theorem #context c.display():*
      #it
    ]
    
    #theorem[$1 = 1$]
    #theorem[$2 < 3$]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/af6Y7nOR_IldvYHIWDmkIQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The rationale behind this is best explained on the example of the heading
counter: An update to the heading counter depends on the heading's level. By
stepping directly before the heading, we can correctly step from ` 1 ` to `
1.1 ` when encountering a level 2 heading. If we were to step after the
heading, we wouldn't know what to step to.

Because counters should always be stepped before the elements they count, they
always start at zero. This way, they are at one for the first display (which
happens after the first step).

##  Time travel

Counters can travel through time! You can find out the final value of the
counter before it is reached and even determine what the value was at any
particular location in the document.

    
    
    #let mine = counter("mycounter")
    
    = Values
    #context [
      Value here: #mine.get() \
      At intro: #mine.at(<intro>) \
      Final value: #mine.final()
    ]
    
    #mine.update(n => n + 3)
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    #lorem(10)
    
    #mine.step()
    #mine.step()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/wodRGpSsJgDZtfsMk_GNgwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Other kinds of state

The ` counter ` type is closely related to [ state
](/docs/reference/introspection/state/ "state") type. Read its documentation
for more details on state management in Typst and why it doesn't just use
normal variables for counters.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Create a new counter identified by a key.

counter  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ counter ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/)

####  ` key `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The key that identifies this counter.

  * If it is a string, creates a custom counter that is only affected by manual updates, 
  * If it is the [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/layout/page/ "`page`") function, counts through pages, 
  * If it is a [ selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/ "selector") , counts through elements that matches with the selector. For example, 
    * provide an element function: counts elements of that type, 
    * provide a [ ` <label> ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) : counts elements with that label. 

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` get ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Retrieves the value of the counter at the current location. Always returns an
array of integers, even if the counter has just one number.

This is equivalent to ` counter  .  at  (  here  (  )  )  ` .

self  .  get  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` display ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Displays the current value of the counter with a numbering and returns the
formatted output.

_Compatibility:_ For compatibility with Typst 0.10 and lower, this function
also works without an established context. Then, it will create opaque
contextual content rather than directly returning the output of the numbering.
This behaviour will be removed in a future release.

self  .  display  (

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  both  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> any

####  ` numbering `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

A [ numbering pattern or a function ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) ,
which specifies how to display the counter. If given a function, that function
receives each number of the counter as a separate argument. If the amount of
numbers varies, e.g. for the heading argument, you can use an [ argument sink
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/) .

If this is omitted or set to ` auto  ` , displays the counter with the
numbering style for the counted element or with the pattern ` "1.1"  ` if no
such style exists.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` both `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

If enabled, displays the current and final top-level count together. Both can
be styled through a single numbering pattern. This is used by the page
numbering property to display the current and total number of pages when a
pattern like ` "1 / 1"  ` is given.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` at ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Retrieves the value of the counter at the given location. Always returns an
array of integers, even if the counter has just one number.

The ` selector ` must match exactly one element in the document. The most
useful kinds of selectors for this are [ labels
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) and [ locations
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) .

_Compatibility:_ For compatibility with Typst 0.10 and lower, this function
also works without a known context if the ` selector ` is a location. This
behaviour will be removed in a future release.

self  .  at  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` selector `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The place at which the counter's value should be retrieved.

###  ` final ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Retrieves the value of the counter at the end of the document. Always returns
an array of integers, even if the counter has just one number.

self  .  final  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` location `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

_Compatibility:_ This argument is deprecated. It only exists for compatibility
with Typst 0.10 and lower and shouldn't be used anymore.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` step `

Increases the value of the counter by one.

The update will be in effect at the position where the returned content is
inserted into the document. If you don't put the output into the document,
nothing happens! This would be the case, for example, if you write ` let  _  =
counter  (  page  )  .  step  (  )  ` . Counter updates are always applied in
layout order and in that case, Typst wouldn't know when to step the counter.

self  .  step  (

level  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` level `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The depth at which to step the counter. Defaults to ` 1  ` .

Default: ` 1  `

###  ` update `

Updates the value of the counter.

Just like with ` step ` , the update only occurs if you put the resulting
content into the document.

self  .  update  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` update `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

If given an integer or array of integers, sets the counter to that value. If
given a function, that function receives the previous counter value (with each
number as a separate argument) and has to return the new value (integer or
array).

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Introspection  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Here  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/)



# **docs/reference/introspection/state.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ State ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/)

#  state

Manages stateful parts of your document.

Let's say you have some computations in your document and want to remember the
result of your last computation to use it in the next one. You might try
something similar to the code below and expect it to output 10, 13, 26, and
21. However this **does not work** in Typst. If you test this code, you will
see that Typst complains with the following error message: _Variables from
outside the function are read-only and cannot be modified._

    
    
    // This doesn't work!
    #let x = 0
    #let compute(expr) = {
      x = eval(
        expr.replace("x", str(x))
      )
      [New value is #x. ]
    }
    
    #compute("10") \
    #compute("x + 3") \
    #compute("x * 2") \
    #compute("x - 5")
    

##  State and document markup

Why does it do that? Because, in general, this kind of computation with side
effects is problematic in document markup and Typst is upfront about that. For
the results to make sense, the computation must proceed in the same order in
which the results will be laid out in the document. In our simple example,
that's the case, but in general it might not be.

Let's look at a slightly different, but similar kind of state: The heading
numbering. We want to increase the heading counter at each heading. Easy
enough, right? Just add one. Well, it's not that simple. Consider the
following example:

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    #let template(body) = [
      = Outline
      ...
      #body
    ]
    
    #show: template
    
    = Introduction
    ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OC8Yphz4-mFQhH6Mm9lwwAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Here, Typst first processes the body of the document after the show rule, sees
the ` Introduction ` heading, then passes the resulting content to the `
template ` function and only then sees the ` Outline ` . Just counting up
would number the ` Introduction ` with ` 1 ` and the ` Outline ` with ` 2 ` .

##  Managing state in Typst

So what do we do instead? We use Typst's state management system. Calling the
` state ` function with an identifying string key and an optional initial
value gives you a state value which exposes a few functions. The two most
important ones are ` get ` and ` update ` :

  * The [ ` get ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-get) function retrieves the current value of the state. Because the value can vary over the course of the document, it is a _contextual_ function that can only be used when [ context ](/docs/reference/context/) is available. 

  * The [ ` update ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-update) function modifies the state. You can give it any value. If given a non-function value, it sets the state to that value. If given a function, that function receives the previous state and has to return the new state. 

Our initial example would now look like this:

    
    
    #let s = state("x", 0)
    #let compute(expr) = [
      #s.update(x =>
        eval(expr.replace("x", str(x)))
      )
      New value is #context s.get().
    ]
    
    #compute("10") \
    #compute("x + 3") \
    #compute("x * 2") \
    #compute("x - 5")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/TvB3cSxy6XwQVp0EXZ9-ewAAAAAAAAAA.png)

State managed by Typst is always updated in layout order, not in evaluation
order. The ` update ` method returns content and its effect occurs at the
position where the returned content is inserted into the document.

As a result, we can now also store some of the computations in variables, but
they still show the correct results:

    
    
    ...
    
    #let more = [
      #compute("x * 2") \
      #compute("x - 5")
    ]
    
    #compute("10") \
    #compute("x + 3") \
    #more
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/leSHwxlkl8fBohZKt4lM4AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This example is of course a bit silly, but in practice this is often exactly
what you want! A good example are heading counters, which is why Typst's [
counting system ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) is very similar to
its state system.

##  Time Travel

By using Typst's state management system you also get time travel
capabilities! We can find out what the value of the state will be at any
position in the document from anywhere else. In particular, the ` at ` method
gives us the value of the state at any particular location and the ` final `
methods gives us the value of the state at the end of the document.

    
    
    ...
    
    Value at `<here>` is
    #context s.at(<here>)
    
    #compute("10") \
    #compute("x + 3") \
    *Here.* <here> \
    #compute("x * 2") \
    #compute("x - 5")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/FSbY2IZskPNKeQtPqbjroAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  A word of caution

To resolve the values of all states, Typst evaluates parts of your code
multiple times. However, there is no guarantee that your state manipulation
can actually be completely resolved.

For instance, if you generate state updates depending on the final value of a
state, the results might never converge. The example below illustrates this.
We initialize our state with ` 1 ` and then update it to its own final value
plus 1. So it should be ` 2 ` , but then its final value is ` 2 ` , so it
should be ` 3 ` , and so on. This example displays a finite value because
Typst simply gives up after a few attempts.

    
    
    // This is bad!
    #let s = state("x", 1)
    #context s.update(s.final() + 1)
    #context s.get()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4ABrNAaHVbvzCF9JEmUebAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

In general, you should try not to generate state updates from within context
expressions. If possible, try to express your updates as non-contextual values
or functions that compute the new value from the previous value. Sometimes, it
cannot be helped, but in those cases it is up to you to ensure that the result
converges.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Create a new state identified by a key.

state  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  any  ,

)  -> [ state ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/)

####  ` key `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The key that identifies this state.

####  ` init `

any

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The initial value of the state.

Default: ` none  `

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` get ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Retrieves the value of the state at the current location.

This is equivalent to ` state  .  at  (  here  (  )  )  ` .

self  .  get  (

)  -> any

###  ` at ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Retrieves the value of the state at the given selector's unique match.

The ` selector ` must match exactly one element in the document. The most
useful kinds of selectors for this are [ labels
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) and [ locations
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) .

_Compatibility:_ For compatibility with Typst 0.10 and lower, this function
also works without a known context if the ` selector ` is a location. This
behaviour will be removed in a future release.

self  .  at  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> any

####  ` selector `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The place at which the state's value should be retrieved.

###  ` final ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Retrieves the value of the state at the end of the document.

self  .  final  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

)  -> any

####  ` location `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

_Compatibility:_ This argument is deprecated. It only exists for compatibility
with Typst 0.10 and lower and shouldn't be used anymore.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` update `

Update the value of the state.

The update will be in effect at the position where the returned content is
inserted into the document. If you don't put the output into the document,
nothing happens! This would be the case, for example, if you write ` let  _  =
state  (  "key"  )  .  update  (  7  )  ` . State updates are always applied
in layout order and in that case, Typst wouldn't know when to update the
state.

self  .  update  (

any  [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` update `

any  or  [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

If given a non function-value, sets the state to that value. If given a
function, that function receives the previous state and has to return the new
state.

###  ` display `

Displays the current value of the state.

**Deprecation planned:** Use [ ` get `
](/docs/reference/introspection/state/#definitions-get) instead.

self  .  display  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` func `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

A function which receives the value of the state and can return arbitrary
content which is then displayed. If this is omitted, the value is directly
displayed.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Query  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/query/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Data Loading  Next page  ](/docs/reference/data-loading/)



# **docs/reference/introspection/metadata.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Metadata ](/docs/reference/introspection/metadata/)

#  ` metadata ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Exposes a value to the query system without producing visible content.

This element can be retrieved with the [ ` query `
](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") function and from the
command line with [ ` typst query `
](/docs/reference/introspection/query/#command-line-queries) . Its purpose is
to expose an arbitrary value to the introspection system. To identify a
metadata value among others, you can attach a [ ` label `
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "`label`") to it and query for that
label.

The ` metadata ` element is especially useful for command line queries because
it allows you to expose arbitrary values to the outside world.

    
    
    // Put metadata somewhere.
    #metadata("This is a note") <note>
    
    // And find it from anywhere else.
    #context {
      query(<note>).first().value
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/sbF_Ac863-gI1m3qoL9avwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

metadata  (

any

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value to embed into the document.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Location  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Query  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/)



# **docs/reference/introspection/query.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Query ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/)

#  ` query ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Finds elements in the document.

The ` query ` functions lets you search your document for elements of a
particular type or with a particular label. To use it, you first need to
ensure that [ context ](/docs/reference/context/ "context") is available.

##  Finding elements

In the example below, we manually create a table of contents instead of using
the [ ` outline ` ](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "`outline`") function.

To do this, we first query for all headings in the document at level 1 and
where ` outlined ` is true. Querying only for headings at level 1 ensures
that, for the purpose of this example, sub-headings are not included in the
table of contents. The ` outlined ` field is used to exclude the "Table of
Contents" heading itself.

Note that we open a ` context ` to be able to use the ` query ` function.

    
    
    #set page(numbering: "1")
    
    #heading(outlined: false)[
      Table of Contents
    ]
    #context {
      let chapters = query(
        heading.where(
          level: 1,
          outlined: true,
        )
      )
      for chapter in chapters {
        let loc = chapter.location()
        let nr = numbering(
          loc.page-numbering(),
          ..counter(page).at(loc),
        )
        [#chapter.body #h(1fr) #nr \ ]
      }
    }
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(10)
    #pagebreak()
    
    == Sub-Heading
    #lorem(8)
    
    = Discussion
    #lorem(18)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/jo-em7a3jFROfNLdVe33CwAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/jo-em7a3jFROfNLdVe33CwAAAAAAAAAB.png)

To get the page numbers, we first get the location of the elements returned by
` query ` with [ ` location `
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-location) . We then also
retrieve the [ page numbering
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#definitions-page-numbering) and [
page counter ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/#page-counter) at that
location and apply the numbering to the counter.

##  A word of caution

To resolve all your queries, Typst evaluates and layouts parts of the document
multiple times. However, there is no guarantee that your queries can actually
be completely resolved. If you aren't careful a query can affect
itselfâleading to a result that never stabilizes.

In the example below, we query for all headings in the document. We then
generate as many headings. In the beginning, there's just one heading, titled
` Real ` . Thus, ` count ` is ` 1 ` and one ` Fake ` heading is generated.
Typst sees that the query's result has changed and processes it again. This
time, ` count ` is ` 2 ` and two ` Fake ` headings are generated. This goes on
and on. As we can see, the output has a finite amount of headings. This is
because Typst simply gives up after a few attempts.

In general, you should try not to write queries that affect themselves. The
same words of caution also apply to other introspection features like [
counters ](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) and [ state
](/docs/reference/introspection/state/ "state") .

    
    
    = Real
    #context {
      let elems = query(heading)
      let count = elems.len()
      count * [= Fake]
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/C2bjyzuukR06BSWIMgC89wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Command line queries

You can also perform queries from the command line with the ` typst query `
command. This command executes an arbitrary query on the document and returns
the resulting elements in serialized form. Consider the following `
example.typ ` file which contains some invisible [ metadata
](/docs/reference/introspection/metadata/ "metadata") :

    
    
    #metadata("This is a note") <note>
    

You can execute a query on it as follows using Typst's CLI:

    
    
    $ typst query example.typ "<note>"
    [
      {
        "func": "metadata",
        "value": "This is a note",
        "label": "<note>"
      }
    ]
    

Frequently, you're interested in only one specific field of the resulting
elements. In the case of the ` metadata ` element, the ` value ` field is the
interesting one. You can extract just this field with the ` --field `
argument.

    
    
    $ typst query example.typ "<note>" --field value
    ["This is a note"]
    

If you are interested in just a single element, you can use the ` --one ` flag
to extract just it.

    
    
    $ typst query example.typ "<note>" --field value --one
    "This is a note"
    

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

query  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) ,

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` target `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Can be

  * an element function like a ` heading ` or ` figure ` , 
  * a ` <label> ` , 
  * a more complex selector like ` heading  .  where  (  level  :  1  )  ` , 
  * or ` selector  (  heading  )  .  before  (  here  (  )  )  ` . 

Only [ locatable ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#locatable) element
functions are supported.

###  ` location `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

_Compatibility:_ This argument is deprecated. It only exists for compatibility
with Typst 0.10 and lower and shouldn't be used anymore.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Metadata  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/metadata/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) State  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/state/)



# **docs/reference/introspection/locate.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Introspection ](/docs/reference/introspection/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Locate ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/)

#  ` locate ` Contextual

Question mark

Contextual functions can only be used when the context is known

Determines the location of an element in the document.

Takes a selector that must match exactly one element and returns that
element's [ ` location ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/
"`location`") . This location can, in particular, be used to retrieve the
physical [ ` page ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#definitions-
page) number and [ ` position `
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/#definitions-position) (page, x, y)
for that element.

##  Examples

Locating a specific element:

    
    
    #context [
      Introduction is at: \
      #locate(<intro>).position()
    ]
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/fizxN7L7L7E8uWpTd8_mMgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Compatibility

In Typst 0.10 and lower, the ` locate ` function took a closure that made the
current location in the document available (like [ ` here `
](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") does now). This usage pattern
is deprecated. Compatibility with the old way will remain for a while to give
package authors time to upgrade. To that effect, ` locate ` detects whether it
received a selector or a user-defined function and adjusts its semantics
accordingly. This behaviour will be removed in the future.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

locate  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

###  ` selector `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

A selector that should match exactly one element. This element will be
located.

Especially useful in combination with

  * [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") to locate the current context, 
  * a [ ` location ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/ "`location`") retrieved from some queried element via the [ ` location() ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-location) method on content. 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Here  Previous page
](/docs/reference/introspection/here/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Location  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/image.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Image ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/)

#  ` image ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A raster or vector graphic.

You can wrap the image in a [ ` figure ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/
"`figure`") to give it a number and caption.

Like most elements, images are _block-level_ by default and thus do not
integrate themselves into adjacent paragraphs. To force an image to become
inline, put it into a [ ` box ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`") .

##  Example

    
    
    #figure(
      image("molecular.jpg", width: 80%),
      caption: [
        A step in the molecular testing
        pipeline of our lab.
      ],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/znWnPh4HT5GrpkEcbnfOxAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

image  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  format  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  alt  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  fit  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to an image file

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

###  ` format `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The image's format. Detected automatically by default.

Supported formats are PNG, JPEG, GIF, and SVG. Using a PDF as an image is [
not currently supported ](https://github.com/typst/typst/issues/145) .

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  png  " ` |  Raster format for illustrations and transparent graphics.   
` "  jpg  " ` |  Lossy raster format suitable for photos.   
` "  gif  " ` |  Raster format that is typically used for short animated clips.   
` "  svg  " ` |  The vector graphics format of the web.   
  
Default: ` auto  `

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The width of the image.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The height of the image.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` alt `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A text describing the image.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` fit `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How the image should adjust itself to a given area (the area is defined by the
` width ` and ` height ` fields). Note that ` fit ` doesn't visually change
anything if the area's aspect ratio is the same as the image's one.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  cover  " ` |  The image should completely cover the area (preserves aspect ratio by cropping the image only horizontally or vertically). This is the default.   
` "  contain  " ` |  The image should be fully contained in the area (preserves aspect ratio; doesn't crop the image; one dimension can be narrower than specified).   
` "  stretch  " ` |  The image should be stretched so that it exactly fills the area, even if this means that the image will be distorted (doesn't preserve aspect ratio and doesn't crop the image).   
  
Default: ` "cover"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(width: 300pt, height: 50pt, margin: 10pt)
    #image("tiger.jpg", width: 100%, fit: "cover")
    #image("tiger.jpg", width: 100%, fit: "contain")
    #image("tiger.jpg", width: 100%, fit: "stretch")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/oZRwamqZZ0p_tV8oioYxxgAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/oZRwamqZZ0p_tV8oioYxxgAAAAAAAAAB.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/oZRwamqZZ0p_tV8oioYxxgAAAAAAAAAC.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` decode `

Decode a raster or vector graphic from bytes or a string.

image  .  decode  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) ,  format  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  alt  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  fit  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #let original = read("diagram.svg")
    #let changed = original.replace(
      "#2B80FF", // blue
      green.to-hex(),
    )
    
    #image.decode(original)
    #image.decode(changed)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yVFFVjYQ7xibSWu-658yNwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` data `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The data to decode as an image. Can be a string for SVGs.

####  ` format `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The image's format. Detected automatically by default.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  png  " ` |  Raster format for illustrations and transparent graphics.   
` "  jpg  " ` |  Lossy raster format suitable for photos.   
` "  gif  " ` |  Raster format that is typically used for short animated clips.   
` "  svg  " ` |  The vector graphics format of the web.   
  
####  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

The width of the image.

####  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

The height of the image.

####  ` alt `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

A text describing the image.

####  ` fit `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

How the image should adjust itself to a given area.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  cover  " ` |  The image should completely cover the area (preserves aspect ratio by cropping the image only horizontally or vertically). This is the default.   
` "  contain  " ` |  The image should be fully contained in the area (preserves aspect ratio; doesn't crop the image; one dimension can be narrower than specified).   
` "  stretch  " ` |  The image should be stretched so that it exactly fills the area, even if this means that the image will be distorted (doesn't preserve aspect ratio and doesn't crop the image).   
  
[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Gradient  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Line  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/line/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/path.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Path ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/)

#  ` path ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A path through a list of points, connected by Bezier curves.

##  Example

    
    
    #path(
      fill: blue.lighten(80%),
      stroke: blue,
      closed: true,
      (0pt, 50pt),
      (100%, 50pt),
      ((50%, 0pt), (40pt, 0pt)),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/fHH_90d6MEksjFQh_gCkDwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

path  (

fill  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  fill-rule  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  closed  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  ..  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the path.

When setting a fill, the default stroke disappears. To create a rectangle with
both fill and stroke, you have to configure both.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` fill-rule `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The drawing rule used to fill the path.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  non-zero  " ` |  Specifies that "inside" is computed by a non-zero sum of signed edge crossings.   
` "  even-odd  " ` |  Specifies that "inside" is computed by an odd number of edge crossings.   
  
Default: ` "non-zero"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    // We use `.with` to get a new
    // function that has the common
    // arguments pre-applied.
    #let star = path.with(
      fill: red,
      closed: true,
      (25pt, 0pt),
      (10pt, 50pt),
      (50pt, 20pt),
      (0pt, 20pt),
      (40pt, 50pt),
    )
    
    #star(fill-rule: "non-zero")
    #star(fill-rule: "even-odd")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MJEOUf62l7aK0PG-Hl3HKgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke") the path. This
can be:

Can be set to ` none  ` to disable the stroke or to ` auto  ` for a stroke of
` 1pt  ` black if and if only if no fill is given.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` closed `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to close this path with one last bezier curve. This curve will takes
into account the adjacent control points. If you want to close with a straight
line, simply add one last point that's the same as the start point.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` vertices `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The vertices of the path.

Each vertex can be defined in 3 ways:

  * A regular point, as given to the [ ` line ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/line/ "`line`") or [ ` polygon ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/ "`polygon`") function. 
  * An array of two points, the first being the vertex and the second being the control point. The control point is expressed relative to the vertex and is mirrored to get the second control point. The given control point is the one that affects the curve coming _into_ this vertex (even for the first point). The mirrored control point affects the curve going out of this vertex. 
  * An array of three points, the first being the vertex and the next being the control points (control point for curves coming in and out, respectively). 

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Line  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/line/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Pattern  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/square.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Square ](/docs/reference/visualize/square/)

#  ` square ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A square with optional content.

##  Example

    
    
    // Without content.
    #square(size: 40pt)
    
    // With content.
    #square[
      Automatically \
      sized to fit.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DjWoCmaGrn_miIIjOqjv7gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

square  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  width  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  radius  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  outset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The square's side length. This is mutually exclusive with ` width ` and `
height ` .

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The square's width. This is mutually exclusive with ` size ` and ` height ` .

In contrast to ` size ` , this can be relative to the parent container's
width.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The square's height. This is mutually exclusive with ` size ` and ` width ` .

In contrast to ` size ` , this can be relative to the parent container's
height.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the square. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-fill) for more details.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to stroke the square. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-stroke) for more details.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` radius `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to round the square's corners. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-radius) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the square's content. See the [ box's documentation
](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-inset) for more details.

Default: ` 0%  +  5pt  `

###  ` outset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to expand the square's size without affecting the layout. See the [
box's documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-outset) for more
details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` body `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The content to place into the square. The square expands to fit this content,
keeping the 1-1 aspect ratio.

When this is omitted, the square takes on a default size of at most ` 30pt  `
.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Rectangle  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Stroke  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/ellipse.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Ellipse ](/docs/reference/visualize/ellipse/)

#  ` ellipse ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

An ellipse with optional content.

##  Example

    
    
    // Without content.
    #ellipse(width: 35%, height: 30pt)
    
    // With content.
    #ellipse[
      #set align(center)
      Automatically sized \
      to fit the content.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/u35LFJMn0LDLxUBqOdjmvgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

ellipse  (

width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  outset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The ellipse's width, relative to its parent container.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The ellipse's height, relative to its parent container.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the ellipse. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-fill) for more details.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to stroke the ellipse. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-stroke) for more details.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the ellipse's content. See the [ box's documentation
](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-inset) for more details.

Default: ` 0%  +  5pt  `

###  ` outset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to expand the ellipse's size without affecting the layout. See the [
box's documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-outset) for more
details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` body `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The content to place into the ellipse.

When this is omitted, the ellipse takes on a default size of at most ` 45pt  `
by ` 30pt  ` .

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Color  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Gradient  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/color.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

#  color

A color in a specific color space.

Typst supports:

  * sRGB through the [ ` rgb ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-rgb)
  * Device CMYK through [ ` cmyk ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-cmyk)
  * D65 Gray through the [ ` luma ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-luma)
  * Oklab through the [ ` oklab ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab)
  * Oklch through the [ ` oklch ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklch)
  * Linear RGB through the [ ` color.linear-rgb ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-linear-rgb)
  * HSL through the [ ` color.hsl ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsl)
  * HSV through the [ ` color.hsv ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsv)

##  Example

    
    
    #rect(fill: aqua)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/k-6wh2l9TTXmPhzZxpahjQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Predefined colors

Typst defines the following built-in colors:

Color  |  Definition   
---|---  
` black ` |  ` luma  (  0  )  `  
` gray ` |  ` luma  (  170  )  `  
` silver ` |  ` luma  (  221  )  `  
` white ` |  ` luma  (  255  )  `  
` navy ` |  ` rgb  (  "#001f3f"  )  `  
` blue ` |  ` rgb  (  "#0074d9"  )  `  
` aqua ` |  ` rgb  (  "#7fdbff"  )  `  
` teal ` |  ` rgb  (  "#39cccc"  )  `  
` eastern ` |  ` rgb  (  "#239dad"  )  `  
` purple ` |  ` rgb  (  "#b10dc9"  )  `  
` fuchsia ` |  ` rgb  (  "#f012be"  )  `  
` maroon ` |  ` rgb  (  "#85144b"  )  `  
` red ` |  ` rgb  (  "#ff4136"  )  `  
` orange ` |  ` rgb  (  "#ff851b"  )  `  
` yellow ` |  ` rgb  (  "#ffdc00"  )  `  
` olive ` |  ` rgb  (  "#3d9970"  )  `  
` green ` |  ` rgb  (  "#2ecc40"  )  `  
` lime ` |  ` rgb  (  "#01ff70"  )  `  
  
The predefined colors and the most important color constructors are available
globally and also in the color type's scope, so you can write either `
color.red ` or just ` red ` .

![Preview](/assets/docs/IWvUAQq21Ue1zu9gwjch-gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Predefined color maps

Typst also includes a number of preset color maps that can be used for [
gradients ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/#definitions-linear) . These
are simply arrays of colors defined in the module ` color.map ` .

    
    
    #circle(fill: gradient.linear(..color.map.crest))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uG6iVgmQwH_6_-1N42yKHwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Map  |  Details   
---|---  
` turbo ` |  A perceptually uniform rainbow-like color map. Read [ this blog post ](https://ai.googleblog.com/2019/08/turbo-improved-rainbow-colormap-for.html) for more details.   
` cividis ` |  A blue to gray to yellow color map. See [ this blog post ](https://bids.github.io/colormap/) for more details.   
` rainbow ` |  Cycles through the full color spectrum. This color map is best used by setting the interpolation color space to [ HSL ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsl) . The rainbow gradient is **not suitable** for data visualization because it is not perceptually uniform, so the differences between values become unclear to your readers. It should only be used for decorative purposes.   
` spectral ` |  Red to yellow to blue color map.   
` viridis ` |  A purple to teal to yellow color map.   
` inferno ` |  A black to red to yellow color map.   
` magma ` |  A black to purple to yellow color map.   
` plasma ` |  A purple to pink to yellow color map.   
` rocket ` |  A black to red to white color map.   
` mako ` |  A black to teal to yellow color map.   
` vlag ` |  A light blue to white to red color map.   
` icefire ` |  A light teal to black to yellow color map.   
` flare ` |  A orange to purple color map that is perceptually uniform.   
` crest ` |  A blue to white to red color map.   
  
Some popular presets are not included because they are not available under a
free licence. Others, like [ Jet
](https://jakevdp.github.io/blog/2014/10/16/how-bad-is-your-colormap/) , are
not included because they are not color blind friendly. Feel free to use or
create a package with other presets that are useful to you!

![Preview](/assets/docs/S2ExoTDRK30Xf9wXJbWIZgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` luma `

Create a grayscale color.

A grayscale color is represented internally by a single ` lightness `
component.

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

color  .  luma  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #for x in range(250, step: 50) {
      box(square(fill: luma(x)))
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bCTOWkOtpDPjuD2iPgTajQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` lightness `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The lightness component.

####  ` alpha `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The alpha component.

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to grayscale.

If this is given, the ` lightness ` should not be given.

###  ` oklab `

Create an [ Oklab ](https://bottosson.github.io/posts/oklab/) color.

This color space is well suited for the following use cases:

  * Color manipulation such as saturating while keeping perceived hue 
  * Creating grayscale images with uniform perceived lightness 
  * Creating smooth and uniform color transition and gradients 

A linear Oklab color is represented internally by an array of four components:

  * lightness ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * a ( [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") or [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") . Ratios are relative to ` 0.4  ` ; meaning ` 50%  ` is equal to ` 0.2  ` ) 
  * b ( [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") or [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") . Ratios are relative to ` 0.4  ` ; meaning ` 50%  ` is equal to ` 0.2  ` ) 
  * alpha ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

color  .  oklab  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)
,  [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(
      fill: oklab(27%, 20%, -3%, 50%)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1dGzDbwdYzYb5NzJEzQzFAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` lightness `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The lightness component.

####  ` a `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The a ("green/red") component.

####  ` b `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The b ("blue/yellow") component.

####  ` alpha `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The alpha component.

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to Oklab.

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

###  ` oklch `

Create an [ Oklch ](https://bottosson.github.io/posts/oklab/) color.

This color space is well suited for the following use cases:

  * Color manipulation involving lightness, chroma, and hue 
  * Creating grayscale images with uniform perceived lightness 
  * Creating smooth and uniform color transition and gradients 

A linear Oklch color is represented internally by an array of four components:

  * lightness ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * chroma ( [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") or [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") . Ratios are relative to ` 0.4  ` ; meaning ` 50%  ` is equal to ` 0.2  ` ) 
  * hue ( [ ` angle ` ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/ "`angle`") ) 
  * alpha ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

color  .  oklch  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)
,  [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(
      fill: oklch(40%, 0.2, 160deg, 50%)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gEJt1PBpGTajcUm46S-JNgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` lightness `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The lightness component.

####  ` chroma `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The chroma component.

####  ` hue `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The hue component.

####  ` alpha `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The alpha component.

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to Oklch.

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

###  ` linear-rgb `

Create an RGB(A) color with linear luma.

This color space is similar to sRGB, but with the distinction that the color
component are not gamma corrected. This makes it easier to perform color
operations such as blending and interpolation. Although, you should prefer to
use the [ ` oklab ` function ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-
oklab) for these.

A linear RGB(A) color is represented internally by an array of four
components:

  * red ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * green ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * blue ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * alpha ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

color  .  linear-rgb  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(fill: color.linear-rgb(
      30%, 50%, 10%,
    ))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/C39dYHKq1AmgEkOU8XX2kQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` red `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The red component.

####  ` green `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The green component.

####  ` blue `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The blue component.

####  ` alpha `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The alpha component.

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to linear RGB(A).

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

###  ` rgb `

Create an RGB(A) color.

The color is specified in the sRGB color space.

An RGB(A) color is represented internally by an array of four components:

  * red ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * green ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * blue ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * alpha ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

color  .  rgb  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(fill: rgb("#b1f2eb"))
    #square(fill: rgb(87, 127, 230))
    #square(fill: rgb(25%, 13%, 65%))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/eWivZbkq7oFotM06OeK92AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` red `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The red component.

####  ` green `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The green component.

####  ` blue `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The blue component.

####  ` alpha `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The alpha component.

####  ` hex `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color in hexadecimal notation.

Accepts three, four, six or eight hexadecimal digits and optionally a leading
hash.

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #text(16pt, rgb("#239dad"))[
      *Typst*
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/rKfIt6nqSzoBRXt7k7BMOwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to RGB(a).

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

###  ` cmyk `

Create a CMYK color.

This is useful if you want to target a specific printer. The conversion to RGB
for display preview might differ from how your printer reproduces the color.

A CMYK color is represented internally by an array of four components:

  * cyan ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * magenta ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * yellow ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * key ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

Note that CMYK colors are not currently supported when PDF/A output is
enabled.

color  .  cmyk  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(
      fill: cmyk(27%, 0%, 3%, 5%)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1LHigtpFCZVjSNs83fP0eAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` cyan `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The cyan component.

####  ` magenta `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The magenta component.

####  ` yellow `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The yellow component.

####  ` key `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The key component.

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to CMYK.

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

###  ` hsl `

Create an HSL color.

This color space is useful for specifying colors by hue, saturation and
lightness. It is also useful for color manipulation, such as saturating while
keeping perceived hue.

An HSL color is represented internally by an array of four components:

  * hue ( [ ` angle ` ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/ "`angle`") ) 
  * saturation ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * lightness ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * alpha ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

color  .  hsl  (

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(
      fill: color.hsl(30deg, 50%, 60%)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MqR1NhT-m_ImBDX23hY7xgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` hue `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The hue angle.

####  ` saturation `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The saturation component.

####  ` lightness `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The lightness component.

####  ` alpha `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The alpha component.

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to HSL.

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

###  ` hsv `

Create an HSV color.

This color space is useful for specifying colors by hue, saturation and value.
It is also useful for color manipulation, such as saturating while keeping
perceived hue.

An HSV color is represented internally by an array of four components:

  * hue ( [ ` angle ` ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/ "`angle`") ) 
  * saturation ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * value ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 
  * alpha ( [ ` ratio ` ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "`ratio`") ) 

These components are also available using the [ ` components `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-components) method.

color  .  hsv  (

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,
[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(
      fill: color.hsv(30deg, 50%, 60%)
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dEOjXMxlVX8xgAuMFF-gkQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` hue `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The hue angle.

####  ` saturation `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The saturation component.

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value component.

####  ` alpha `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The alpha component.

####  ` color `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Alternatively: The color to convert to HSL.

If this is given, the individual components should not be given.

###  ` components `

Extracts the components of this color.

The size and values of this array depends on the color space. You can obtain
the color space using [ ` space `
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-space) . Below is a table of
the color spaces and their components:

Color space  |  C1  |  C2  |  C3  |  C4   
---|---|---|---|---  
[ ` luma ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-luma) |  Lightness  |  |  |   
[ ` oklab ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) |  Lightness  |  ` a ` |  ` b ` |  Alpha   
[ ` oklch ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklch) |  Lightness  |  Chroma  |  Hue  |  Alpha   
[ ` linear-rgb ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-linear-rgb) |  Red  |  Green  |  Blue  |  Alpha   
[ ` rgb ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-rgb) |  Red  |  Green  |  Blue  |  Alpha   
[ ` cmyk ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-cmyk) |  Cyan  |  Magenta  |  Yellow  |  Key   
[ ` hsl ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsl) |  Hue  |  Saturation  |  Lightness  |  Alpha   
[ ` hsv ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsv) |  Hue  |  Saturation  |  Value  |  Alpha   
  
For the meaning and type of each individual value, see the documentation of
the corresponding color space. The alpha component is optional and only
included if the ` alpha ` argument is ` true ` . The length of the returned
array depends on the number of components and whether the alpha component is
included.

self  .  components  (

alpha  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

    
    
    // note that the alpha component is included by default
    #rgb(40%, 60%, 80%).components()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dzB_dzQf4SM_Ou0eAcFH9AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` alpha `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to include the alpha component.

Default: ` true  `

###  ` space `

Returns the constructor function for this color's space:

  * [ ` luma ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-luma)
  * [ ` oklab ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab)
  * [ ` oklch ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklch)
  * [ ` linear-rgb ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-linear-rgb)
  * [ ` rgb ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-rgb)
  * [ ` cmyk ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-cmyk)
  * [ ` hsl ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsl)
  * [ ` hsv ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsv)

self  .  space  (

)  -> any

    
    
    #let color = cmyk(1%, 2%, 3%, 4%)
    #(color.space() == cmyk)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tfic_6Fu9JDbk4Tz2rYgKAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` to-hex `

Returns the color's RGB(A) hex representation (such as ` #ffaa32 ` or `
#020304fe ` ). The alpha component (last two digits in ` #020304fe ` ) is
omitted if it is equal to ` ff ` (255 / 100%).

self  .  to-hex  (

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

###  ` lighten `

Lightens a color by a given factor.

self  .  lighten  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

####  ` factor `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The factor to lighten the color by.

###  ` darken `

Darkens a color by a given factor.

self  .  darken  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

####  ` factor `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The factor to darken the color by.

###  ` saturate `

Increases the saturation of a color by a given factor.

self  .  saturate  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

####  ` factor `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The factor to saturate the color by.

###  ` desaturate `

Decreases the saturation of a color by a given factor.

self  .  desaturate  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

####  ` factor `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The factor to desaturate the color by.

###  ` negate `

Produces the complementary color using a provided color space. You can think
of it as the opposite side on a color wheel.

self  .  negate  (

space  :  any

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #square(fill: yellow)
    #square(fill: yellow.negate())
    #square(fill: yellow.negate(space: rgb))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/oBWZW_i_eZ8A9K_46wXLaQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` space `

any

The color space used for the transformation. By default, a perceptual color
space is used.

Default: ` oklab `

###  ` rotate `

Rotates the hue of the color by a given angle.

self  .  rotate  (

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  space  :  any  ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

####  ` angle `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The angle to rotate the hue by.

####  ` space `

any

The color space used to rotate. By default, this happens in a perceptual color
space ( [ ` oklch ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklch) ).

Default: ` oklch `

###  ` mix `

Create a color by mixing two or more colors.

In color spaces with a hue component (hsl, hsv, oklch), only two colors can be
mixed at once. Mixing more than two colors in such a space will result in an
error!

color  .  mix  (

..  [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  space  :  any  ,

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #set block(height: 20pt, width: 100%)
    #block(fill: red.mix(blue))
    #block(fill: red.mix(blue, space: rgb))
    #block(fill: color.mix(red, blue, white))
    #block(fill: color.mix((red, 70%), (blue, 30%)))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0jAT6gZPo0X02CVXUm7YpAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` colors `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The colors, optionally with weights, specified as a pair (array of length two)
of color and weight (float or ratio).

The weights do not need to add to ` 100%  ` , they are relative to the sum of
all weights.

####  ` space `

any

The color space to mix in. By default, this happens in a perceptual color
space ( [ ` oklab ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) ).

Default: ` oklab `

###  ` transparentize `

Makes a color more transparent by a given factor.

This method is relative to the existing alpha value. If the scale is positive,
calculates ` alpha - alpha * scale ` . Negative scales behave like `
color.opacify(-scale) ` .

self  .  transparentize  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #block(fill: red)[opaque]
    #block(fill: red.transparentize(50%))[half red]
    #block(fill: red.transparentize(75%))[quarter red]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bnNXhQKfjc4AYVaZ1T3e3wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` scale `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The factor to change the alpha value by.

###  ` opacify `

Makes a color more opaque by a given scale.

This method is relative to the existing alpha value. If the scale is positive,
calculates ` alpha + scale - alpha * scale ` . Negative scales behave like `
color.transparentize(-scale) ` .

self  .  opacify  (

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

    
    
    #let half-red = red.transparentize(50%)
    #block(fill: half-red.opacify(100%))[opaque]
    #block(fill: half-red.opacify(50%))[three quarters red]
    #block(fill: half-red.opacify(-50%))[one quarter red]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1fq--2OrISH1g8_dvUBroAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` scale `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The scale to change the alpha value by.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Circle  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/circle/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Ellipse  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/ellipse/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/pattern.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Pattern ](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

#  pattern

A repeating pattern fill.

Typst supports the most common pattern type of tiled patterns, where a pattern
is repeated in a grid-like fashion, covering the entire area of an element
that is filled or stroked. The pattern is defined by a tile size and a body
defining the content of each cell. You can also add horizontal or vertical
spacing between the cells of the pattern.

##  Examples

    
    
    #let pat = pattern(size: (30pt, 30pt))[
      #place(line(start: (0%, 0%), end: (100%, 100%)))
      #place(line(start: (0%, 100%), end: (100%, 0%)))
    ]
    
    #rect(fill: pat, width: 100%, height: 60pt, stroke: 1pt)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/coeD6IerbqenB1CPjs7dfAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Patterns are also supported on text, but only when setting the [ relativeness
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/#parameters-relative) to either ` auto  `
(the default value) or ` "parent"  ` . To create word-by-word or glyph-by-
glyph patterns, you can wrap the words or characters of your text in [ boxes
](/docs/reference/layout/box/) manually or through a [ show rule
](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) .

    
    
    #let pat = pattern(
      size: (30pt, 30pt),
      relative: "parent",
      square(
        size: 30pt,
        fill: gradient
          .conic(..color.map.rainbow),
      )
    )
    
    #set text(fill: pat)
    #lorem(10)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Vk9hYVErruhpSxeZVudFjQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also space the elements further or closer apart using the [ ` spacing
` ](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/#parameters-spacing) feature of the
pattern. If the spacing is lower than the size of the pattern, the pattern
will overlap. If it is higher, the pattern will have gaps of the same color as
the background of the pattern.

    
    
    #let pat = pattern(
      size: (30pt, 30pt),
      spacing: (10pt, 10pt),
      relative: "parent",
      square(
        size: 30pt,
        fill: gradient
         .conic(..color.map.rainbow),
      ),
    )
    
    #rect(
      width: 100%,
      height: 60pt,
      fill: pat,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yPTj9FTOvqrbv-4eK83U7gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Relativeness

The location of the starting point of the pattern is dependent on the
dimensions of a container. This container can either be the shape that it is
being painted on, or the closest surrounding container. This is controlled by
the ` relative ` argument of a pattern constructor. By default, patterns are
relative to the shape they are being painted on, unless the pattern is applied
on text, in which case they are relative to the closest ancestor container.

Typst determines the ancestor container as follows:

  * For shapes that are placed at the root/top level of the document, the closest ancestor is the page itself. 
  * For other shapes, the ancestor is the innermost [ ` block ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/ "`block`") or [ ` box ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`") that contains the shape. This includes the boxes and blocks that are implicitly created by show rules and elements. For example, a [ ` rotate ` ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/ "`rotate`") will not affect the parent of a gradient, but a [ ` grid ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/ "`grid`") will. 

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Construct a new pattern.

pattern  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  spacing  :  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  relative  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ pattern ](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

    
    
    #let pat = pattern(
      size: (20pt, 20pt),
      relative: "parent",
      place(
        dx: 5pt,
        dy: 5pt,
        rotate(45deg, square(
          size: 5pt,
          fill: black,
        )),
      ),
    )
    
    #rect(width: 100%, height: 60pt, fill: pat)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/s7EOLk1zJeZ_4afTw83qRwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

The bounding box of each cell of the pattern.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` spacing `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

The spacing between cells of the pattern.

Default: ` (  0pt  ,  0pt  )  `

####  ` relative `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The  relative placement  of the pattern.

For an element placed at the root/top level of the document, the parent is the
page itself. For other elements, the parent is the innermost block, box,
column, grid, or stack that contains the element.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  self  " ` |  The gradient is relative to itself (its own bounding box).   
` "  parent  " ` |  The gradient is relative to its parent (the parent's bounding box).   
  
Default: ` auto  `

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content of each cell of the pattern.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Path  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/path/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Polygon  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/rect.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Rectangle ](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/)

#  ` rect ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A rectangle with optional content.

##  Example

    
    
    // Without content.
    #rect(width: 35%, height: 30pt)
    
    // With content.
    #rect[
      Automatically sized \
      to fit the content.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uMLkrKs8AmOe9L-qU4CYKgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

rect  (

width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  radius  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  outset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The rectangle's width, relative to its parent container.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The rectangle's height, relative to its parent container.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the rectangle.

When setting a fill, the default stroke disappears. To create a rectangle with
both fill and stroke, you have to configure both.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #rect(fill: blue)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Xp0gewyTPs1ard61igAjJAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to stroke the rectangle. This can be:

  * ` none  ` to disable stroking 
  * ` auto  ` for a stroke of ` 1pt  +  black ` if and if only if no fill is given. 
  * Any kind of [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke")
  * A dictionary describing the stroke for each side individually. The dictionary can contain the following keys in order of precedence: 
    * ` top ` : The top stroke. 
    * ` right ` : The right stroke. 
    * ` bottom ` : The bottom stroke. 
    * ` left ` : The left stroke. 
    * ` x ` : The horizontal stroke. 
    * ` y ` : The vertical stroke. 
    * ` rest ` : The stroke on all sides except those for which the dictionary explicitly sets a size. 

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #stack(
      dir: ltr,
      spacing: 1fr,
      rect(stroke: red),
      rect(stroke: 2pt),
      rect(stroke: 2pt + red),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/RNPJxaHVa6js_P-8fJFExAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` radius `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to round the rectangle's corners, relative to the minimum of the
width and height divided by two. This can be:

  * A relative length for a uniform corner radius. 
  * A dictionary: With a dictionary, the stroke for each side can be set individually. The dictionary can contain the following keys in order of precedence: 
    * ` top-left ` : The top-left corner radius. 
    * ` top-right ` : The top-right corner radius. 
    * ` bottom-right ` : The bottom-right corner radius. 
    * ` bottom-left ` : The bottom-left corner radius. 
    * ` left ` : The top-left and bottom-left corner radii. 
    * ` top ` : The top-left and top-right corner radii. 
    * ` right ` : The top-right and bottom-right corner radii. 
    * ` bottom ` : The bottom-left and bottom-right corner radii. 
    * ` rest ` : The radii for all corners except those for which the dictionary explicitly sets a size. 

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set rect(stroke: 4pt)
    #rect(
      radius: (
        left: 5pt,
        top-right: 20pt,
        bottom-right: 10pt,
      ),
      stroke: (
        left: red,
        top: yellow,
        right: green,
        bottom: blue,
      ),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/P93tDNSSrvmdfXv2L7MmYQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the rectangle's content. See the [ box's documentation
](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-outset) for more details.

Default: ` 0%  +  5pt  `

###  ` outset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to expand the rectangle's size without affecting the layout. See the
[ box's documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-outset) for
more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` body `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The content to place into the rectangle.

When this is omitted, the rectangle takes on a default size of at most ` 45pt
` by ` 30pt  ` .

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Polygon  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Square  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/square/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/stroke.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/)

#  stroke

Defines how to draw a line.

A stroke has a _paint_ (a solid color or gradient), a _thickness,_ a line
_cap,_ a line _join,_ a _miter limit,_ and a _dash_ pattern. All of these
values are optional and have sensible defaults.

##  Example

    
    
    #set line(length: 100%)
    #stack(
      spacing: 1em,
      line(stroke: 2pt + red),
      line(stroke: (paint: blue, thickness: 4pt, cap: "round")),
      line(stroke: (paint: blue, thickness: 1pt, dash: "dashed")),
      line(stroke: 2pt + gradient.linear(..color.map.rainbow)),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3NofubbwIllodsFawlNd8wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Simple strokes

You can create a simple solid stroke from a color, a thickness, or a
combination of the two. Specifically, wherever a stroke is expected you can
pass any of the following values:

  * A length specifying the stroke's thickness. The color is inherited, defaulting to black. 
  * A color to use for the stroke. The thickness is inherited, defaulting to ` 1pt  ` . 
  * A stroke combined from color and thickness using the ` + ` operator as in ` 2pt  +  red ` . 

For full control, you can also provide a [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/ "dictionary") or a ` stroke ` object
to any function that expects a stroke. The dictionary's keys may include any
of the parameters for the constructor function, shown below.

##  Fields

On a stroke object, you can access any of the fields listed in the constructor
function. For example, ` (  2pt  +  blue  )  .  thickness ` is ` 2pt  ` .
Meanwhile, ` stroke  (  red  )  .  cap ` is ` auto  ` because it's
unspecified. Fields set to ` auto  ` are inherited.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to a stroke or constructs a stroke with the given parameters.

Note that in most cases you do not need to convert values to strokes in order
to use them, as they will be converted automatically. However, this
constructor can be useful to ensure a value has all the fields of a stroke.

stroke  (

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) ,

)  -> [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/)

    
    
    #let my-func(x) = {
        x = stroke(x) // Convert to a stroke
        [Stroke has thickness #x.thickness.]
    }
    #my-func(3pt) \
    #my-func(red) \
    #my-func(stroke(cap: "round", thickness: 1pt))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/oulcXDNcpunCSxVvCPXMJQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` paint `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The color or gradient to use for the stroke.

If set to ` auto  ` , the value is inherited, defaulting to ` black ` .

####  ` thickness `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The stroke's thickness.

If set to ` auto  ` , the value is inherited, defaulting to ` 1pt  ` .

####  ` cap `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

How the ends of the stroke are rendered.

If set to ` auto  ` , the value is inherited, defaulting to ` "butt"  ` .

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  butt  " ` |  Square stroke cap with the edge at the stroke's end point.   
` "  round  " ` |  Circular stroke cap centered at the stroke's end point.   
` "  square  " ` |  Square stroke cap centered at the stroke's end point.   
  
####  ` join `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

How sharp turns are rendered.

If set to ` auto  ` , the value is inherited, defaulting to ` "miter"  ` .

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  miter  " ` |  Segments are joined with sharp edges. Sharp bends exceeding the miter limit are bevelled instead.   
` "  round  " ` |  Segments are joined with circular corners.   
` "  bevel  " ` |  Segments are joined with a bevel (a straight edge connecting the butts of the joined segments).   
  
####  ` dash `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The dash pattern to use. This can be:

  * One of the predefined patterns: 
    * ` "solid"  ` or ` none  `
    * ` "dotted"  `
    * ` "densely-dotted"  `
    * ` "loosely-dotted"  `
    * ` "dashed"  `
    * ` "densely-dashed"  `
    * ` "loosely-dashed"  `
    * ` "dash-dotted"  `
    * ` "densely-dash-dotted"  `
    * ` "loosely-dash-dotted"  `
  * An [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") with alternating lengths for dashes and gaps. You can also use the string ` "dot"  ` for a length equal to the line thickness. 
  * A [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/ "dictionary") with the keys ` array ` (same as the array above), and ` phase ` (of type [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/ "length") ), which defines where in the pattern to start drawing. 

If set to ` auto  ` , the value is inherited, defaulting to ` none  ` .

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View options

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  solid  " ` |   
` "  dotted  " ` |   
` "  densely-dotted  " ` |   
` "  loosely-dotted  " ` |   
` "  dashed  " ` |   
` "  densely-dashed  " ` |   
` "  loosely-dashed  " ` |   
` "  dash-dotted  " ` |   
` "  densely-dash-dotted  " ` |   
` "  loosely-dash-dotted  " ` |   
  
![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set line(length: 100%, stroke: 2pt)
    #stack(
      spacing: 1em,
      line(stroke: (dash: "dashed")),
      line(stroke: (dash: (10pt, 5pt, "dot", 5pt))),
      line(stroke: (dash: (array: (10pt, 5pt, "dot", 5pt), phase: 10pt))),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/P38gFluKZcw64WdZR85nHgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` miter-limit `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Number at which protruding sharp bends are rendered with a bevel instead or a
miter join. The higher the number, the sharper an angle can be before it is
bevelled. Only applicable if ` join ` is ` "miter"  ` .

Specifically, the miter limit is the maximum ratio between the corner's
protrusion length and the stroke's thickness.

If set to ` auto  ` , the value is inherited, defaulting to ` 4.0  ` .

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #let points = ((15pt, 0pt), (0pt, 30pt), (30pt, 30pt), (10pt, 20pt))
    #set path(stroke: 6pt + blue)
    #stack(
        dir: ltr,
        spacing: 1cm,
        path(stroke: (miter-limit: 1), ..points),
        path(stroke: (miter-limit: 4), ..points),
        path(stroke: (miter-limit: 5), ..points),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3zeU1BuQq8_VfdTfAQbv5QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Square  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/square/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Introspection  Next page  ](/docs/reference/introspection/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/gradient.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/)

#  gradient

A color gradient.

Typst supports linear gradients through the [ ` gradient.linear ` function
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/#definitions-linear) , radial gradients
through the [ ` gradient.radial ` function
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/#definitions-radial) , and conic
gradients through the [ ` gradient.conic ` function
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/#definitions-conic) .

A gradient can be used for the following purposes:

  * As a fill to paint the interior of a shape: ` rect  (  fill  :  gradient  .  linear  (  ..  )  )  `
  * As a stroke to paint the outline of a shape: ` rect  (  stroke  :  1pt  +  gradient  .  linear  (  ..  )  )  `
  * As the fill of text: ` set  text  (  fill  :  gradient  .  linear  (  ..  )  )  `
  * As a color map you can [ sample ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/#definitions-sample) from: ` gradient  .  linear  (  ..  )  .  sample  (  50%  )  `

##  Examples

    
    
    #stack(
      dir: ltr,
      spacing: 1fr,
      square(fill: gradient.linear(..color.map.rainbow)),
      square(fill: gradient.radial(..color.map.rainbow)),
      square(fill: gradient.conic(..color.map.rainbow)),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_ynuy5GKkV7ADtX87C9EiAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Gradients are also supported on text, but only when setting the [ relativeness
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/#definitions-relative) to either ` auto
` (the default value) or ` "parent"  ` . To create word-by-word or glyph-by-
glyph gradients, you can wrap the words or characters of your text in [ boxes
](/docs/reference/layout/box/) manually or through a [ show rule
](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) .

    
    
    #set text(fill: gradient.linear(red, blue))
    #let rainbow(content) = {
      set text(fill: gradient.linear(..color.map.rainbow))
      box(content)
    }
    
    This is a gradient on text, but with a #rainbow[twist]!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ch0LALUCwuQoVDnxrE_UZwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Stops

A gradient is composed of a series of stops. Each of these stops has a color
and an offset. The offset is a [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)
between ` 0%  ` and ` 100%  ` or an angle between ` 0deg  ` and ` 360deg  ` .
The offset is a relative position that determines how far along the gradient
the stop is located. The stop's color is the color of the gradient at that
position. You can choose to omit the offsets when defining a gradient. In this
case, Typst will space all stops evenly.

##  Relativeness

The location of the ` 0%  ` and ` 100%  ` stops depends on the dimensions of a
container. This container can either be the shape that it is being painted on,
or the closest surrounding container. This is controlled by the ` relative `
argument of a gradient constructor. By default, gradients are relative to the
shape they are being painted on, unless the gradient is applied on text, in
which case they are relative to the closest ancestor container.

Typst determines the ancestor container as follows:

  * For shapes that are placed at the root/top level of the document, the closest ancestor is the page itself. 
  * For other shapes, the ancestor is the innermost [ ` block ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/ "`block`") or [ ` box ` ](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`") that contains the shape. This includes the boxes and blocks that are implicitly created by show rules and elements. For example, a [ ` rotate ` ](/docs/reference/layout/rotate/ "`rotate`") will not affect the parent of a gradient, but a [ ` grid ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/ "`grid`") will. 

##  Color spaces and interpolation

Gradients can be interpolated in any color space. By default, gradients are
interpolated in the [ Oklab ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-
oklab) color space, which is a [ perceptually uniform
](https://programmingdesignsystems.com/color/perceptually-uniform-color-
spaces/index.html) color space. This means that the gradient will be perceived
as having a smooth progression of colors. This is particularly useful for data
visualization.

However, you can choose to interpolate the gradient in any supported color
space you want, but beware that some color spaces are not suitable for
perceptually interpolating between colors. Consult the table below when
choosing an interpolation space.

Color space  |  Perceptually uniform?   
---|---  
[ Oklab ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) |  _Yes_  
[ Oklch ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklch) |  _Yes_  
[ sRGB ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-rgb) |  _No_  
[ linear-RGB ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-linear-rgb) |  _Yes_  
[ CMYK ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-cmyk) |  _No_  
[ Grayscale ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-luma) |  _Yes_  
[ HSL ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsl) |  _No_  
[ HSV ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsv) |  _No_  
  
![Preview](/assets/docs/hDyhl3_sixunf7X8Ctx-hAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Direction

Some gradients are sensitive to direction. For example, a linear gradient has
an angle that determines its direction. Typst uses a clockwise angle, with 0Â°
being from left to right, 90Â° from top to bottom, 180Â° from right to left,
and 270Â° from bottom to top.

    
    
    #stack(
      dir: ltr,
      spacing: 1fr,
      square(fill: gradient.linear(red, blue, angle: 0deg)),
      square(fill: gradient.linear(red, blue, angle: 90deg)),
      square(fill: gradient.linear(red, blue, angle: 180deg)),
      square(fill: gradient.linear(red, blue, angle: 270deg)),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/cXgxeaTP2ci7NL16a3rB_gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Presets

Typst predefines color maps that you can use with your gradients. See the [ `
color ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#predefined-color-maps)
documentation for more details.

##  Note on file sizes

Gradients can be quite large, especially if they have many stops. This is
because gradients are stored as a list of colors and offsets, which can take
up a lot of space. If you are concerned about file sizes, you should consider
the following:

  * SVG gradients are currently inefficiently encoded. This will be improved in the future. 
  * PDF gradients in the [ ` color.oklab ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) , [ ` color.hsv ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsv) , [ ` color.hsl ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-hsl) , and [ ` color.oklch ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklch) color spaces are stored as a list of [ ` color.rgb ` ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-rgb) colors with extra stops in between. This avoids needing to encode these color spaces in your PDF file, but it does add extra stops to your gradient, which can increase the file size. 

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` linear `

Creates a new linear gradient, in which colors transition along a straight
line.

gradient  .  linear  (

..  [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  space  :  any  ,  relative  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  [ direction ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/) ,  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,

)  -> [ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/)

    
    
    #rect(
      width: 100%,
      height: 20pt,
      fill: gradient.linear(
        ..color.map.viridis,
      ),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3vCVaADmPcUqYOLma4-wcgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` stops `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The color  stops  of the gradient.

####  ` space `

any

The color space in which to interpolate the gradient.

Defaults to a perceptually uniform color space called [ Oklab
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) .

Default: ` oklab `

####  ` relative `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The  relative placement  of the gradient.

For an element placed at the root/top level of the document, the parent is the
page itself. For other elements, the parent is the innermost block, box,
column, grid, or stack that contains the element.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  self  " ` |  The gradient is relative to itself (its own bounding box).   
` "  parent  " ` |  The gradient is relative to its parent (the parent's bounding box).   
  
Default: ` auto  `

####  ` dir `

[ direction ](/docs/reference/layout/direction/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The direction of the gradient.

Default: ` ltr `

####  ` angle `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The angle of the gradient.

###  ` radial `

Creates a new radial gradient, in which colors radiate away from an origin.

The gradient is defined by two circles: the focal circle and the end circle.
The focal circle is a circle with center ` focal-center ` and radius ` focal-
radius ` , that defines the points at which the gradient starts and has the
color of the first stop. The end circle is a circle with center ` center ` and
radius ` radius ` , that defines the points at which the gradient ends and has
the color of the last stop. The gradient is then interpolated between these
two circles.

Using these four values, also called the focal point for the starting circle
and the center and radius for the end circle, we can define a gradient with
more interesting properties than a basic radial gradient.

gradient  .  radial  (

..  [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  space  :  any  ,  relative  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  center  :  [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  radius  :  [
ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  focal-center  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  focal-radius  :  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,

)  -> [ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/)

    
    
    #stack(
      dir: ltr,
      spacing: 1fr,
      circle(fill: gradient.radial(
        ..color.map.viridis,
      )),
      circle(fill: gradient.radial(
        ..color.map.viridis,
        focal-center: (10%, 40%),
        focal-radius: 5%,
      )),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IfkE7bIcLhrH24l0nk0sIQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` stops `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The color  stops  of the gradient.

####  ` space `

any

The color space in which to interpolate the gradient.

Defaults to a perceptually uniform color space called [ Oklab
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) .

Default: ` oklab `

####  ` relative `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The  relative placement  of the gradient.

For an element placed at the root/top level of the document, the parent is the
page itself. For other elements, the parent is the innermost block, box,
column, grid, or stack that contains the element.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  self  " ` |  The gradient is relative to itself (its own bounding box).   
` "  parent  " ` |  The gradient is relative to its parent (the parent's bounding box).   
  
Default: ` auto  `

####  ` center `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

The center of the end circle of the gradient.

A value of ` (  50%  ,  50%  )  ` means that the end circle is centered inside
of its container.

Default: ` (  50%  ,  50%  )  `

####  ` radius `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

The radius of the end circle of the gradient.

By default, it is set to ` 50%  ` . The ending radius must be bigger than the
focal radius.

Default: ` 50%  `

####  ` focal-center `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

The center of the focal circle of the gradient.

The focal center must be inside of the end circle.

A value of ` (  50%  ,  50%  )  ` means that the focal circle is centered
inside of its container.

By default it is set to the same as the center of the last circle.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` focal-radius `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

The radius of the focal circle of the gradient.

The focal center must be inside of the end circle.

By default, it is set to ` 0%  ` . The focal radius must be smaller than the
ending radius`.

Default: ` 0%  `

###  ` conic `

Creates a new conic gradient, in which colors change radially around a center
point.

You can control the center point of the gradient by using the ` center `
argument. By default, the center point is the center of the shape.

gradient  .  conic  (

..  [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  angle  :  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  space  :  any  ,  relative  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  center  :  [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/)

    
    
    #stack(
      dir: ltr,
      spacing: 1fr,
      circle(fill: gradient.conic(
        ..color.map.viridis,
      )),
      circle(fill: gradient.conic(
        ..color.map.viridis,
        center: (20%, 30%),
      )),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Mqmcewscuekk2Rsln7oKygAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` stops `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The color  stops  of the gradient.

####  ` angle `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

The angle of the gradient.

Default: ` 0deg  `

####  ` space `

any

The color space in which to interpolate the gradient.

Defaults to a perceptually uniform color space called [ Oklab
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/#definitions-oklab) .

Default: ` oklab `

####  ` relative `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The  relative placement  of the gradient.

For an element placed at the root/top level of the document, the parent is the
page itself. For other elements, the parent is the innermost block, box,
column, grid, or stack that contains the element.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  self  " ` |  The gradient is relative to itself (its own bounding box).   
` "  parent  " ` |  The gradient is relative to its parent (the parent's bounding box).   
  
Default: ` auto  `

####  ` center `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

The center of the last circle of the gradient.

A value of ` (  50%  ,  50%  )  ` means that the end circle is centered inside
of its container.

Default: ` (  50%  ,  50%  )  `

###  ` sharp `

Creates a sharp version of this gradient.

Sharp gradients have discrete jumps between colors, instead of a smooth
transition. They are particularly useful for creating color lists for a preset
gradient.

self  .  sharp  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  smoothness  :  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,

)  -> [ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/)

    
    
    #set rect(width: 100%, height: 20pt)
    #let grad = gradient.linear(..color.map.rainbow)
    #rect(fill: grad)
    #rect(fill: grad.sharp(5))
    #rect(fill: grad.sharp(5, smoothness: 20%))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/k1IrJvVHW9DTjXfwHdfh_QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` steps `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number of stops in the gradient.

####  ` smoothness `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

How much to smooth the gradient.

Default: ` 0%  `

###  ` repeat `

Repeats this gradient a given number of times, optionally mirroring it at each
repetition.

self  .  repeat  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  mirror  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/)

    
    
    #circle(
      radius: 40pt,
      fill: gradient
        .radial(aqua, white)
        .repeat(4),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ydbGAMwgwvGMCJpfMs1wAAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` repetitions `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number of times to repeat the gradient.

####  ` mirror `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to mirror the gradient at each repetition.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` kind `

Returns the kind of this gradient.

self  .  kind  (

)  -> [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

###  ` stops `

Returns the stops of this gradient.

self  .  stops  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` space `

Returns the mixing space of this gradient.

self  .  space  (

)  -> any

###  ` relative `

Returns the relative placement of this gradient.

self  .  relative  (

)  -> [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/)

###  ` angle `

Returns the angle of this gradient.

self  .  angle  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

###  ` sample `

Sample the gradient at a given position.

The position is either a position along the gradient (a [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/ "ratio") between ` 0%  ` and ` 100%  ` ) or an
[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/ "angle") . Any value outside of this
range will be clamped.

self  .  sample  (

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)

####  ` t `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The position at which to sample the gradient.

###  ` samples `

Samples the gradient at multiple positions at once and returns the results as
an array.

self  .  samples  (

..  [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` ts `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The positions at which to sample the gradient.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Ellipse  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/ellipse/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Image  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/circle.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Circle ](/docs/reference/visualize/circle/)

#  ` circle ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A circle with optional content.

##  Example

    
    
    // Without content.
    #circle(radius: 25pt)
    
    // With content.
    #circle[
      #set align(center + horizon)
      Automatically \
      sized to fit.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/H1niwFeoKUTVgzuqcmZ_VgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

circle  (

radius  :  [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  width  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  height  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  outset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` radius `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The circle's radius. This is mutually exclusive with ` width ` and ` height `
.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The circle's width. This is mutually exclusive with ` radius ` and ` height `
.

In contrast to ` radius ` , this can be relative to the parent container's
width.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` height `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The circle's height. This is mutually exclusive with ` radius ` and ` width `
.

In contrast to ` radius ` , this can be relative to the parent container's
height.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the circle. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-fill) for more details.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to stroke the circle. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-stroke) for more details.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the circle's content. See the [ box's documentation
](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-inset) for more details.

Default: ` 0%  +  5pt  `

###  ` outset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to expand the circle's size without affecting the layout. See the [
box's documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/box/#parameters-outset) for more
details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

###  ` body `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The content to place into the circle. The circle expands to fit this content,
keeping the 1-1 aspect ratio.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Visualize  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Color
Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/polygon.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Polygon ](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/)

#  ` polygon ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A closed polygon.

The polygon is defined by its corner points and is closed automatically.

##  Example

    
    
    #polygon(
      fill: blue.lighten(80%),
      stroke: blue,
      (20%, 0pt),
      (60%, 0pt),
      (80%, 2cm),
      (0%,  2cm),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/TuzATomarVg-0NmUVu3QFAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

polygon  (

fill  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  fill-rule  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  ..  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the polygon.

When setting a fill, the default stroke disappears. To create a rectangle with
both fill and stroke, you have to configure both.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` fill-rule `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The drawing rule used to fill the polygon.

See the [ path documentation ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/#parameters-
fill-rule) for an example.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  non-zero  " ` |  Specifies that "inside" is computed by a non-zero sum of signed edge crossings.   
` "  even-odd  " ` |  Specifies that "inside" is computed by an odd number of edge crossings.   
  
Default: ` "non-zero"  `

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke") the polygon.
This can be:

Can be set to ` none  ` to disable the stroke or to ` auto  ` for a stroke of
` 1pt  ` black if and if only if no fill is given.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` vertices `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The vertices of the polygon. Each point is specified as an array of two [
relative lengths ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) .

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` regular `

A regular polygon, defined by its size and number of vertices.

polygon  .  regular  (

fill  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  size  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  vertices  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #polygon.regular(
      fill: blue.lighten(80%),
      stroke: blue,
      size: 30pt,
      vertices: 3,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/nSKAw-cASGAIxDorv3UyHgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

How to fill the polygon. See the general [ polygon's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/#parameters-fill) for more details.

####  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

How to stroke the polygon. See the general [ polygon's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/polygon/#parameters-stroke) for more details.

####  ` size `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

The diameter of the [ circumcircle
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circumcircle) of the regular polygon.

Default: ` 1em  `

####  ` vertices `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of vertices in the polygon.

Default: ` 3  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Pattern  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Rectangle  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/)



# **docs/reference/visualize/line.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Visualize ](/docs/reference/visualize/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Line ](/docs/reference/visualize/line/)

#  ` line ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A line from one point to another.

##  Example

    
    
    #set page(height: 100pt)
    
    #line(length: 100%)
    #line(end: (50%, 50%))
    #line(
      length: 4cm,
      stroke: 2pt + maroon,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IBdLCKW0h9kNWs6W_8DKAwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

line  (

start  :  [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  end  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  length  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  angle  :  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) ,  stroke  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` start `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The start point of the line.

Must be an array of exactly two relative lengths.

Default: ` (  0%  +  0pt  ,  0%  +  0pt  )  `

###  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The offset from ` start ` where the line ends.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` length `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The line's length. This is only respected if ` end ` is ` none  ` .

Default: ` 0%  +  30pt  `

###  ` angle `

[ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The angle at which the line points away from the origin. This is only
respected if ` end ` is ` none  ` .

Default: ` 0deg  `

###  ` stroke `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke") the line.

Default: ` 1pt  +  black `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set line(length: 100%)
    #stack(
      spacing: 1em,
      line(stroke: 2pt + red),
      line(stroke: (paint: blue, thickness: 4pt, cap: "round")),
      line(stroke: (paint: blue, thickness: 1pt, dash: "dashed")),
      line(stroke: (paint: blue, thickness: 1pt, dash: ("dot", 2pt, 4pt, 2pt))),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Shwqpl9XrWkg6A1XzBok6AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Image  Previous page
](/docs/reference/visualize/image/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Path  Next page  ](/docs/reference/visualize/path/)



# **docs/reference/math/binom.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Binomial ](/docs/reference/math/binom/)

#  ` binom ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A binomial expression.

##  Example

    
    
    $ binom(n, k) $
    $ binom(n, k_1, k_2, k_3, ..., k_m) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/x7e1yoGny67cX0IzBxp69AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  binom  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` upper `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The binomial's upper index.

###  ` lower `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The binomial's lower index.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Attach  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/attach/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Cancel  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/cancel/)



# **docs/reference/math/class.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Class ](/docs/reference/math/class/)

#  ` class ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Forced use of a certain math class.

This is useful to treat certain symbols as if they were of a different class,
e.g. to make a symbol behave like a relation. The class of a symbol defines
the way it is laid out, including spacing around it, and how its scripts are
attached by default. Note that the latter can always be overridden using [ `
limits ` ](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-limits) and [ ` scripts `
](/docs/reference/math/attach/#functions-scripts) .

##  Example

    
    
    #let loves = math.class(
      "relation",
      sym.suit.heart,
    )
    
    $x loves y and y loves 5$
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4-1urHqzMZfIf7fLTw_1MAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  class  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` class `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The class to apply to the content.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View options

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  normal  " ` |  The default class for non-special things.   
` "  punctuation  " ` |  Punctuation, e.g. a comma.   
` "  opening  " ` |  An opening delimiter, e.g. ` ( ` .   
` "  closing  " ` |  A closing delimiter, e.g. ` ) ` .   
` "  fence  " ` |  A delimiter that is the same on both sides, e.g. ` | ` .   
` "  large  " ` |  A large operator like ` sum ` .   
` "  relation  " ` |  A relation like ` = ` or ` prec ` .   
` "  unary  " ` |  A unary operator like ` not ` .   
` "  binary  " ` |  A binary operator like ` times ` .   
` "  vary  " ` |  An operator that can be both unary or binary like ` + ` .   
  
###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to which the class is applied.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Cases  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/cases/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Equation  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/equation/)



# **docs/reference/math/styles.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Styles ](/docs/reference/math/styles)

#  Styles

Alternate letterforms within formulas.

These functions are distinct from the [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/
"`text`") function because math fonts contain multiple variants of each
letter.

##  Functions

###  ` upright `

Upright (non-italic) font style in math.

math  .  upright  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ upright(A) != A $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/I3XzlEtlEFD5Cw96srS1ngAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

###  ` italic `

Italic font style in math.

For roman letters and greek lowercase letters, this is already the default.

math  .  italic  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

###  ` bold `

Bold font style in math.

math  .  bold  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ bold(A) := B^+ $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8-9k5ChF2PO13_x1ipPkAAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Stretch  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/stretch/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Text Operator  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/op/)



# **docs/reference/math/op.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text Operator ](/docs/reference/math/op/)

#  ` op ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A text operator in an equation.

##  Example

    
    
    $ tan x = (sin x)/(cos x) $
    $ op("custom",
         limits: #true)_(n->oo) n $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/n9yefElmfwTi92ejfLzhZwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Predefined Operators

Typst predefines the operators ` arccos ` , ` arcsin ` , ` arctan ` , ` arg `
, ` cos ` , ` cosh ` , ` cot ` , ` coth ` , ` csc ` , ` csch ` , ` ctg ` , `
deg ` , ` det ` , ` dim ` , ` exp ` , ` gcd ` , ` hom ` , ` id ` , ` im ` , `
inf ` , ` ker ` , ` lg ` , ` lim ` , ` liminf ` , ` limsup ` , ` ln ` , ` log
` , ` max ` , ` min ` , ` mod ` , ` Pr ` , ` sec ` , ` sech ` , ` sin ` , `
sinc ` , ` sinh ` , ` sup ` , ` tan ` , ` tanh ` , ` tg ` and ` tr ` .

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  op  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  limits  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` text `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The operator's text.

###  ` limits `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the operator should show attachments as limits in display mode.

Default: ` false  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Styles  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/styles/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Under/Over  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/underover/)



# **docs/reference/math/mat.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Matrix ](/docs/reference/math/mat/)

#  ` mat ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A matrix.

The elements of a row should be separated by commas, while the rows themselves
should be separated by semicolons. The semicolon syntax merges preceding
arguments separated by commas into an array. You can also use this special
syntax of math function calls to define custom functions that take 2D data.

Content in cells can be aligned with the [ ` align `
](/docs/reference/math/mat/#parameters-align) parameter, or content in cells
that are in the same row can be aligned with the ` & ` symbol.

##  Example

    
    
    $ mat(
      1, 2, ..., 10;
      2, 2, ..., 10;
      dots.v, dots.v, dots.down, dots.v;
      10, 10, ..., 10;
    ) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yiSilYGQ1wRBpIK3ON349AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  mat  (

delim  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ symbol
](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) ,  align  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  augment  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  gap  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  row-gap  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  column-gap  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  ..  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` delim `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ symbol
](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The delimiter to use.

Can be a single character specifying the left delimiter, in which case the
right delimiter is inferred. Otherwise, can be an array containing a left and
a right delimiter.

Default: ` (  "("  ,  ")"  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.mat(delim: "[")
    $ mat(1, 2; 3, 4) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/CpCAX34oIjWq-jvec_NKoQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` align `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The horizontal alignment that each cell should have.

Default: ` center `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.mat(align: right)
    $ mat(-1, 1, 1; 1, -1, 1; 1, 1, -1) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/X3QXNtgXqEVUQfvJRQOPRwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` augment `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Draws augmentation lines in a matrix.

  * ` none  ` : No lines are drawn. 
  * A single number: A vertical augmentation line is drawn after the specified column number. Negative numbers start from the end. 
  * A dictionary: With a dictionary, multiple augmentation lines can be drawn both horizontally and vertically. Additionally, the style of the lines can be set. The dictionary can contain the following keys: 
    * ` hline ` : The offsets at which horizontal lines should be drawn. For example, an offset of ` 2 ` would result in a horizontal line being drawn after the second row of the matrix. Accepts either an integer for a single line, or an array of integers for multiple lines. Like for a single number, negative numbers start from the end. 
    * ` vline ` : The offsets at which vertical lines should be drawn. For example, an offset of ` 2 ` would result in a vertical line being drawn after the second column of the matrix. Accepts either an integer for a single line, or an array of integers for multiple lines. Like for a single number, negative numbers start from the end. 
    * ` stroke ` : How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) the line. If set to ` auto  ` , takes on a thickness of 0.05em and square line caps. 

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    $ mat(1, 0, 1; 0, 1, 2; augment: #2) $
    // Equivalent to:
    $ mat(1, 0, 1; 0, 1, 2; augment: #(-1)) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4iip0Z9ppDA0SxnJHJihkQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

    
    
    $ mat(0, 0, 0; 1, 1, 1; augment: #(hline: 1, stroke: 2pt + green)) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3PHAJpsviSZ-Rqtb3sBd4AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` gap `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gap between rows and columns.

This is a shorthand to set ` row-gap ` and ` column-gap ` to the same value.

Default: ` 0%  +  0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.mat(gap: 1em)
    $ mat(1, 2; 3, 4) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kaypJSdE1P1lOWZ-cMMpyAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` row-gap `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gap between rows.

Default: ` 0%  +  0.2em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.mat(row-gap: 1em)
    $ mat(1, 2; 3, 4) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YNVJ8uCnPvrs8e0YkWIQFgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` column-gap `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gap between columns.

Default: ` 0%  +  0.5em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.mat(column-gap: 1em)
    $ mat(1, 2; 3, 4) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tKmrTRxYwVIL8x7N4tnRyQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` rows `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

An array of arrays with the rows of the matrix.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #let data = ((1, 2, 3), (4, 5, 6))
    #let matrix = math.mat(..data)
    $ v := matrix $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/N-7caJ4FsPlOdlVrUrNk9gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Left/Right  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/lr/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Primes
Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/primes/)



# **docs/reference/math/roots.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Roots ](/docs/reference/math/roots)

#  Roots

Square and non-square roots.

##  Example

    
    
    $ sqrt(3 - 2 sqrt(2)) = sqrt(2) - 1 $
    $ root(3, x) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YJMQ-3S5QEsCnosYijnvKwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Functions

###  ` root ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A general root.

math  .  root  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ root(3, x) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5dcBKGUow3rGrUB1Eg_gjwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` index `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Which root of the radicand to take.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` radicand `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to take the root of.

###  ` sqrt `

A square root.

math  .  sqrt  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ sqrt(3 - 2 sqrt(2)) = sqrt(2) - 1 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5thyKdLM1Lrfm53ILJWqaQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` radicand `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to take the square root of.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Primes  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/primes/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Sizes  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/sizes/)



# **docs/reference/math/underover.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Under/Over ](/docs/reference/math/underover)

#  Under/Over

Delimiters above or below parts of an equation.

The braces and brackets further allow you to add an optional annotation below
or above themselves.

##  Functions

###  ` underline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal line under content.

math  .  underline  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ underline(1 + 2 + ... + 5) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kPv2rkuOYqE5xrS9gynyqwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content above the line.

###  ` overline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal line over content.

math  .  overline  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ overline(1 + 2 + ... + 5) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/brbtze6pYcbdDHZXqYtX4QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content below the line.

###  ` underbrace ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal brace under content, with an optional annotation below.

math  .  underbrace  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ underbrace(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/CQPrguDXpL2KqqF50rooNAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content above the brace.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content below the brace.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` overbrace ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal brace over content, with an optional annotation above.

math  .  overbrace  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ overbrace(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kkBGSVxyTk5_L1k_EG8I3gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content below the brace.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content above the brace.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` underbracket ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal bracket under content, with an optional annotation below.

math  .  underbracket  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ underbracket(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gOJp15FKm4cOEOHbW4H-OwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content above the bracket.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content below the bracket.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` overbracket ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal bracket over content, with an optional annotation above.

math  .  overbracket  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ overbracket(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1FDacJmC0p-s0HOdRor7WgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content below the bracket.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content above the bracket.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` underparen ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal parenthesis under content, with an optional annotation below.

math  .  underparen  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ underparen(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/L9b8yvtULgB5qqliYqLlbAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content above the parenthesis.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content below the parenthesis.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` overparen ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal parenthesis over content, with an optional annotation above.

math  .  overparen  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ overparen(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0O_PdeP9aD4IdbiAFPLHcwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content below the parenthesis.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content above the parenthesis.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` undershell ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal tortoise shell bracket under content, with an optional annotation
below.

math  .  undershell  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ undershell(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qJR4zaGYtEbCSgwj0kBzVgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content above the tortoise shell bracket.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content below the tortoise shell bracket.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` overshell ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal tortoise shell bracket over content, with an optional annotation
above.

math  .  overshell  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ overshell(1 + 2 + ... + 5, "numbers") $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/vPA0v0E_JXwsC1BpaClcEgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content below the tortoise shell bracket.

####  ` annotation `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The optional content above the tortoise shell bracket.

Default: ` none  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Text Operator  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/op/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Variants  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/variants/)



# **docs/reference/math/variants.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Variants ](/docs/reference/math/variants)

#  Variants

Alternate typefaces within formulas.

These functions are distinct from the [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/
"`text`") function because math fonts contain multiple variants of each
letter.

##  Functions

###  ` serif `

Serif (roman) font style in math.

This is already the default.

math  .  serif  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

###  ` sans `

Sans-serif font style in math.

math  .  sans  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ sans(A B C) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QH7JeXflCs-wCjP8nkBWrQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

###  ` frak `

Fraktur font style in math.

math  .  frak  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ frak(P) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/e8XkJAdgWXZDqbWs94GeeQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

###  ` mono `

Monospace font style in math.

math  .  mono  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ mono(x + y = z) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VdkE7dQPvzJTe7BxDZHcnwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

###  ` bb `

Blackboard bold (double-struck) font style in math.

For uppercase latin letters, blackboard bold is additionally available through
[ symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/) of the form ` NN ` and ` RR ` .

math  .  bb  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ bb(b) $
    $ bb(N) = NN $
    $ f: NN -> RR $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/7qs4sC1Ha0vO_Ei_dnjHuQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

###  ` cal `

Calligraphic font style in math.

math  .  cal  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    Let $cal(P)$ be the set of ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kqxr3_NhGcBq3QZhkIfIjwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This corresponds both to LaTeX's ` \mathcal ` and ` \mathscr ` as both of
these styles share the same Unicode codepoints. Switching between the styles
is thus only possible if supported by the font via [ font features
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-features) .

For the default math font, the roundhand style is available through the ` ss01
` feature. Therefore, you could define your own version of ` \mathscr ` like
this:

    
    
    #let scr(it) = text(
      features: ("ss01",),
      box($cal(it)$),
    )
    
    We establish $cal(P) != scr(P)$.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PLEOQqYY9qiWLwCVv8j_HAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

(The box is not conceptually necessary, but unfortunately currently needed due
to limitations in Typst's text style handling in math.)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to style.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Under/Over  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/underover/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Vector  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/vec/)



# **docs/reference/math/stretch.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Stretch ](/docs/reference/math/stretch/)

#  ` stretch ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Stretches a glyph.

This function can also be used to automatically stretch the base of an
attachment, so that it fits the top and bottom attachments.

Note that only some glyphs can be stretched, and which ones can depend on the
math font being used. However, most math fonts are the same in this regard.

    
    
    $ H stretch(=)^"define" U + p V $
    $ f : X stretch(->>, size: #150%)_"surjective" Y $
    $ x stretch(harpoons.ltrb, size: #3em) y
        stretch(\[, size: #150%) z $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/s6743QhH3-etZ1y_QW-bLAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  stretch  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  size  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The glyph to stretch.

###  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The size to stretch to, relative to the maximum size of the glyph and its
attachments.

Default: ` auto  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Sizes  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/sizes/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Styles  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/styles/)



# **docs/reference/math/cancel.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Cancel ](/docs/reference/math/cancel/)

#  ` cancel ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Displays a diagonal line over a part of an equation.

This is commonly used to show the elimination of a term.

##  Example

    
    
    Here, we can simplify:
    $ (a dot b dot cancel(x)) /
        cancel(x) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/fVEZvXjKTk2s3WO88t3K8AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  cancel  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  length  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  inverted  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  cross  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  angle  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)
[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  stroke  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content over which the line should be placed.

###  ` length `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The length of the line, relative to the length of the diagonal spanning the
whole element being "cancelled". A value of ` 100%  ` would then have the line
span precisely the element's diagonal.

Default: ` 100%  +  3pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    $ a + cancel(x, length: #200%)
        - cancel(x, length: #200%) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_RSKVrNDnF5_pAJyRMmcrAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` inverted `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the cancel line should be inverted (flipped along the y-axis). For the
default angle setting, inverted means the cancel line points to the top left
instead of top right.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    $ (a cancel((b + c), inverted: #true)) /
        cancel(b + c, inverted: #true) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/GWluRapeZy8kHQiZ5c3XbQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` cross `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether two opposing cancel lines should be drawn, forming a cross over the
element. Overrides ` inverted ` .

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    $ cancel(Pi, cross: #true) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/biIi09LikcDnwaA0WaNwJQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` angle `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to rotate the cancel line.

  * If given an angle, the line is rotated by that angle clockwise with respect to the y-axis. 
  * If ` auto  ` , the line assumes the default angle; that is, along the rising diagonal of the content box. 
  * If given a function ` angle => angle ` , the line is rotated, with respect to the y-axis, by the angle returned by that function. The function receives the default angle as its input. 

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    $ cancel(Pi)
      cancel(Pi, angle: #0deg)
      cancel(Pi, angle: #45deg)
      cancel(Pi, angle: #90deg)
      cancel(1/(1+x), angle: #(a => a + 45deg))
      cancel(1/(1+x), angle: #(a => a + 90deg)) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OCEmML9KQSY4Sru0zk3XGwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stroke `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) the cancel line.

Default: ` 0.5pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    $ cancel(
      sum x,
      stroke: #(
        paint: red,
        thickness: 1.5pt,
        dash: "dashed",
      ),
    ) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KCV7eimRh0Q3LxZudj8IDAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Binomial  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/binom/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Cases  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/cases/)



# **docs/reference/math/primes.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Primes ](/docs/reference/math/primes/)

#  ` primes ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Grouped primes.

    
    
    $ a'''_b = a^'''_b $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uHgNvego3SyqChIc3iZ9sQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function has dedicated syntax: use apostrophes instead of primes. They
will automatically attach to the previous element, moving superscripts to the
next level.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  primes  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number of grouped primes.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Matrix  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/mat/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Roots
Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/roots/)



# **docs/reference/math/vec.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Vector ](/docs/reference/math/vec/)

#  ` vec ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A column vector.

Content in the vector's elements can be aligned with the [ ` align `
](/docs/reference/math/vec/#parameters-align) parameter, or the ` & ` symbol.

##  Example

    
    
    $ vec(a, b, c) dot vec(1, 2, 3)
        = a + 2b + 3c $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LnRm06lLMggD8fCQZdA66QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  vec  (

delim  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ symbol
](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) ,  align  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  gap  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` delim `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ symbol
](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The delimiter to use.

Can be a single character specifying the left delimiter, in which case the
right delimiter is inferred. Otherwise, can be an array containing a left and
a right delimiter.

Default: ` (  "("  ,  ")"  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.vec(delim: "[")
    $ vec(1, 2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5LFZJ9d25bljXFp6kARHcgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` align `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The horizontal alignment that each element should have.

Default: ` center `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.vec(align: right)
    $ vec(-1, 1, -1) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ZtHlp9Y4zEtz53Ydf5unLAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` gap `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gap between elements.

Default: ` 0%  +  0.2em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.vec(gap: 1em)
    $ vec(1, 2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uiK2bQUKjIzcO3IGp7RZPwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The elements of the vector.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Variants  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/variants/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Symbols  Next page  ](/docs/reference/symbols/)



# **docs/reference/math/cases.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Cases ](/docs/reference/math/cases/)

#  ` cases ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A case distinction.

Content across different branches can be aligned with the ` & ` symbol.

##  Example

    
    
    $ f(x, y) := cases(
      1 "if" (x dot y)/2 <= 0,
      2 "if" x "is even",
      3 "if" x in NN,
      4 "else",
    ) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0X1AFPDieBd9jiawKpc0-AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  cases  (

delim  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ symbol
](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) ,  reverse  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  gap  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` delim `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ symbol
](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The delimiter to use.

Can be a single character specifying the left delimiter, in which case the
right delimiter is inferred. Otherwise, can be an array containing a left and
a right delimiter.

Default: ` (  "{"  ,  "}"  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.cases(delim: "[")
    $ x = cases(1, 2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bErdOHWWOQLSKtsxtJeY5QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` reverse `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the direction of cases should be reversed.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.cases(reverse: true)
    $ cases(1, 2) = x $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/z6AQZKJsH9nM95e6Aw0hGgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` gap `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gap between branches.

Default: ` 0%  +  0.2em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.cases(gap: 1em)
    $ x = cases(1, 2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/-xscfzRH4Dw6Yi5TCvpkVwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The branches of the case distinction.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Cancel  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/cancel/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Class  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/class/)



# **docs/reference/math/attach.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Attach ](/docs/reference/math/attach)

#  Attach

Subscript, superscripts, and limits.

Attachments can be displayed either as sub/superscripts, or limits. Typst
automatically decides which is more suitable depending on the base, but you
can also control this manually with the ` scripts ` and ` limits ` functions.

If you want the base to stretch to fit long top and bottom attachments (for
example, an arrow with text above it), use the [ ` stretch `
](/docs/reference/math/stretch/) function.

##  Example

    
    
    $ sum_(i=0)^n a_i = 2^(1+i) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QRQ31w2n3rdGvD8KZ-ysUQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax for attachments after the base: Use
the underscore ( ` _ ` ) to indicate a subscript i.e. bottom attachment and
the hat ( ` ^ ` ) to indicate a superscript i.e. top attachment.

##  Functions

###  ` attach ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A base with optional attachments.

math  .  attach  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  t  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  b  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  tl  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  bl  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  tr  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  br  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ attach(
      Pi, t: alpha, b: beta,
      tl: 1, tr: 2+3, bl: 4+5, br: 6,
    ) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hP1S-FGMSbXQwhVNN2LoxQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` base `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The base to which things are attached.

####  ` t `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The top attachment, smartly positioned at top-right or above the base.

You can wrap the base in ` limits  (  )  ` or ` scripts  (  )  ` to override
the smart positioning.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` b `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The bottom attachment, smartly positioned at the bottom-right or below the
base.

You can wrap the base in ` limits  (  )  ` or ` scripts  (  )  ` to override
the smart positioning.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` tl `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The top-left attachment (before the base).

Default: ` none  `

####  ` bl `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The bottom-left attachment (before base).

Default: ` none  `

####  ` tr `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The top-right attachment (after the base).

Default: ` none  `

####  ` br `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The bottom-right attachment (after the base).

Default: ` none  `

###  ` scripts ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Forces a base to display attachments as scripts.

math  .  scripts  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ scripts(sum)_1^2 != sum_1^2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yVmcJ82GwTKFuNMU4shSjAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The base to attach the scripts to.

###  ` limits ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Forces a base to display attachments as limits.

math  .  limits  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  inline  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ limits(A)_1^2 != A_1^2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_7kc3fTt948a-U1_9wdyzgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The base to attach the limits to.

####  ` inline `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to also force limits in inline equations.

When applying limits globally (e.g., through a show rule), it is typically a
good idea to disable this.

Default: ` true  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Accent  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/accent/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Binomial  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/binom/)



# **docs/reference/math/sizes.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Sizes ](/docs/reference/math/sizes)

#  Sizes

Forced size styles for expressions within formulas.

These functions allow manual configuration of the size of equation elements to
make them look as in a display/inline equation or as if used in a root or
sub/superscripts.

##  Functions

###  ` display `

Forced display style in math.

This is the normal size for block equations.

math  .  display  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  cramped  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $sum_i x_i/2 = display(sum_i x_i/2)$
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Kw_xKFEpG79sGcim5bh7SgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to size.

####  ` cramped `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to impose a height restriction for exponents, like regular sub- and
superscripts do.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` inline `

Forced inline (text) style in math.

This is the normal size for inline equations.

math  .  inline  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  cramped  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ sum_i x_i/2
        = inline(sum_i x_i/2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yhhyiAgPa8_SZLz7nNtNqAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to size.

####  ` cramped `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to impose a height restriction for exponents, like regular sub- and
superscripts do.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` script `

Forced script style in math.

This is the smaller size used in powers or sub- or superscripts.

math  .  script  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  cramped  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $sum_i x_i/2 = script(sum_i x_i/2)$
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/UAO0CCEy42RrRJk6xg_ljgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to size.

####  ` cramped `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to impose a height restriction for exponents, like regular sub- and
superscripts do.

Default: ` true  `

###  ` sscript `

Forced second script style in math.

This is the smallest size, used in second-level sub- and superscripts (script
of the script).

math  .  sscript  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  cramped  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $sum_i x_i/2 = sscript(sum_i x_i/2)$
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/EpmDoJiJrfbN7kA0Km7ujwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to size.

####  ` cramped `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to impose a height restriction for exponents, like regular sub- and
superscripts do.

Default: ` true  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Roots  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/roots/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Stretch  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/stretch/)



# **docs/reference/math/frac.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Fraction ](/docs/reference/math/frac/)

#  ` frac ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A mathematical fraction.

##  Example

    
    
    $ 1/2 < (x+1)/2 $
    $ ((x+1)) / 2 = frac(a, b) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9RFsr-VSObielPb4Nrr-zQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: Use a slash to turn neighbouring
expressions into a fraction. Multiple atoms can be grouped into a single
expression using round grouping parenthesis. Such parentheses are removed from
the output, but you can nest multiple to force them.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  frac  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` num `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The fraction's numerator.

###  ` denom `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The fraction's denominator.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Equation  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/equation/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Left/Right  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/lr/)



# **docs/reference/math/accent.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Accent ](/docs/reference/math/accent/)

#  ` accent ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Attaches an accent to a base.

##  Example

    
    
    $grave(a) = accent(a, `)$ \
    $arrow(a) = accent(a, arrow)$ \
    $tilde(a) = accent(a, \u{0303})$
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/wdLZED2cvtXKAU75vKtAKwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  accent  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  size  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` base `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The base to which the accent is applied. May consist of multiple letters.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    $arrow(A B C)$
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/aVpZuZcTglBCvF8kbjxN7AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` accent `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The accent to apply to the base.

Supported accents include:

Accent  |  Name  |  Codepoint   
---|---|---  
Grave  |  ` grave ` |  ` ` `  
Acute  |  ` acute ` |  ` Â´ `  
Circumflex  |  ` hat ` |  ` ^ `  
Tilde  |  ` tilde ` |  ` ~ `  
Macron  |  ` macron ` |  ` Â¯ `  
Dash  |  ` dash ` |  ` â¾ `  
Breve  |  ` breve ` |  ` Ë `  
Dot  |  ` dot ` |  ` . `  
Double dot, Diaeresis  |  ` dot.double ` , ` diaer ` |  ` Â¨ `  
Triple dot  |  ` dot.triple ` |  ` â `  
Quadruple dot  |  ` dot.quad ` |  ` â `  
Circle  |  ` circle ` |  ` â `  
Double acute  |  ` acute.double ` |  ` Ë `  
Caron  |  ` caron ` |  ` Ë `  
Right arrow  |  ` arrow ` , ` -> ` |  ` â `  
Left arrow  |  ` arrow.l ` , ` <- ` |  ` â `  
Left/Right arrow  |  ` arrow.l.r ` |  ` â `  
Right harpoon  |  ` harpoon ` |  ` â `  
Left harpoon  |  ` harpoon.lt ` |  ` â¼ `  
  
###  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The size of the accent, relative to the width of the base.

Default: ` auto  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Math  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Attach
Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/attach/)



# **docs/reference/math/lr.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Left/Right ](/docs/reference/math/lr)

#  Left/Right

Delimiter matching.

The ` lr ` function allows you to match two delimiters and scale them with the
content they contain. While this also happens automatically for delimiters
that match syntactically, ` lr ` allows you to match two arbitrary delimiters
and control their size exactly. Apart from the ` lr ` function, Typst provides
a few more functions that create delimiter pairings for absolute, ceiled, and
floored values as well as norms.

##  Example

    
    
    $ [a, b/2] $
    $ lr(]sum_(x=1)^n], size: #50%) x $
    $ abs((x + y) / 2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ftGuzhHsliOe05r2qFQMwQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Functions

###  ` lr ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Scales delimiters.

While matched delimiters scale by default, this can be used to scale unmatched
delimiters and to control the delimiter scaling more precisely.

math  .  lr  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The size of the brackets, relative to the height of the wrapped content.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The delimited content, including the delimiters.

###  ` mid ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Scales delimiters vertically to the nearest surrounding ` lr  (  )  ` group.

math  .  mid  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ { x mid(|) sum_(i=1)^n w_i|f_i (x)| < 1 } $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/op-SkIh83R9BuQA_mC41YAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to be scaled.

###  ` abs `

Takes the absolute value of an expression.

math  .  abs  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ abs(x/2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/WJLuRK0YgTAAKX7q_RtueAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

The size of the brackets, relative to the height of the wrapped content.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to take the absolute value of.

###  ` norm `

Takes the norm of an expression.

math  .  norm  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ norm(x/2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YC6RjZ5CBxOUd9-0Ud9TzQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

The size of the brackets, relative to the height of the wrapped content.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to take the norm of.

###  ` floor `

Floors an expression.

math  .  floor  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ floor(x/2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PDEHlUdVGIVhIYs9pZubiAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

The size of the brackets, relative to the height of the wrapped content.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to floor.

###  ` ceil `

Ceils an expression.

math  .  ceil  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ ceil(x/2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8M0cDo0mVWiDmMeZvIBqOAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

The size of the brackets, relative to the height of the wrapped content.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to ceil.

###  ` round `

Rounds an expression.

math  .  round  (

size  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    $ round(x/2) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tF8zASmAKWpzYdWTOE8zPAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` size `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

The size of the brackets, relative to the height of the wrapped content.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to round.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Fraction  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/frac/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Matrix  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/mat/)



# **docs/reference/math/equation.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Math ](/docs/reference/math/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Equation ](/docs/reference/math/equation/)

#  ` equation ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A mathematical equation.

Can be displayed inline with text or as a separate block.

##  Example

    
    
    #set text(font: "New Computer Modern")
    
    Let $a$, $b$, and $c$ be the side
    lengths of right-angled triangle.
    Then, we know that:
    $ a^2 + b^2 = c^2 $
    
    Prove by induction:
    $ sum_(k=1)^n k = (n(n+1)) / 2 $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JtxOgQArvspfmmStl8-3_gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

By default, block-level equations will not break across pages. This can be
changed through ` show  math  .  equation  :  set  block  (  breakable  :
true  )  ` .

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: Write mathematical markup within
dollar signs to create an equation. Starting and ending the equation with at
least one space lifts it into a separate block that is centered horizontally.
For more details about math syntax, see the [ main math page
](/docs/reference/math/) .

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

math  .  equation  (

block  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  numbering  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  number-align  :  [
alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  supplement  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` block `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the equation is displayed as a separate block.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` numbering `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ number ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) block-level equations.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.equation(numbering: "(1)")
    
    We define:
    $ phi.alt := (1 + sqrt(5)) / 2 $ <ratio>
    
    With @ratio, we get:
    $ F_n = floor(1 / sqrt(5) phi.alt^n) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ICkRN4qFA2wn3VV_dGJcKAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` number-align `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The alignment of the equation numbering.

By default, the alignment is ` end  +  horizon ` . For the horizontal
component, you can use ` right ` , ` left ` , or ` start ` and ` end ` of the
text direction; for the vertical component, you can use ` top ` , ` horizon `
, or ` bottom ` .

Default: ` end  +  horizon `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.equation(numbering: "(1)", number-align: bottom)
    
    We can calculate:
    $ E &= sqrt(m_0^2 + p^2) \
        &approx 125 "GeV" $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/EjQKswH-OBAc5Rwhl-7WNQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` supplement `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A supplement for the equation.

For references to equations, this is added before the referenced number.

If a function is specified, it is passed the referenced equation and should
return content.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set math.equation(numbering: "(1)", supplement: [Eq.])
    
    We define:
    $ phi.alt := (1 + sqrt(5)) / 2 $ <ratio>
    
    With @ratio, we get:
    $ F_n = floor(1 / sqrt(5) phi.alt^n) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LsvSGn7Nchg2dddv3zDBtAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The contents of the equation.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Class  Previous page
](/docs/reference/math/class/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Fraction  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/frac/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/label.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)

#  label

A label for an element.

Inserting a label into content attaches it to the closest preceding element
that is not a space. The preceding element must be in the same scope as the
label, which means that ` Hello  #  [  <label> ]  ` , for instance, wouldn't
work.

A labelled element can be [ referenced ](/docs/reference/model/ref/) , [
queried ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/) for, and [ styled
](/docs/reference/styling/) through its label.

Once constructed, you can get the name of a label using [ ` str `
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#constructor) .

##  Example

    
    
    #show <a>: set text(blue)
    #show label("b"): set text(red)
    
    = Heading <a>
    *Strong* #label("b")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/l3ZXI9iv-ZpcNuL82oagnwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: You can create a label by enclosing
its name in angle brackets. This works both in markup and code. A label's name
can contain letters, numbers, ` _ ` , ` - ` , ` : ` , and ` . ` .

Note that there is a syntactical difference when using the dedicated syntax
for this function. In the code below, the ` <a> ` terminates the heading and
thus attaches to the heading itself, whereas the ` #  label  (  "b"  )  ` is
part of the heading and thus attaches to the heading's text.

    
    
    // Equivalent to `#heading[Introduction] <a>`.
    = Introduction <a>
    
    // Equivalent to `#heading[Conclusion #label("b")]`.
    = Conclusion #label("b")
    

Currently, labels can only be attached to elements in markup mode, not in code
mode. This might change in the future.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Creates a label from a string.

label  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)

####  ` name `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The name of the label.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Integer  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Module  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/module/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/plugin.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Plugin ](/docs/reference/foundations/plugin/)

#  plugin

A WebAssembly plugin.

Typst is capable of interfacing with plugins compiled to WebAssembly. Plugin
functions may accept multiple [ byte buffers
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) as arguments and return a single byte
buffer. They should typically be wrapped in idiomatic Typst functions that
perform the necessary conversions between native Typst types and bytes.

Plugins run in isolation from your system, which means that printing, reading
files, or anything like that will not be supported for security reasons. To
run as a plugin, a program needs to be compiled to a 32-bit shared WebAssembly
library. Many compilers will use the [ WASI ABI ](https://wasi.dev/) by
default or as their only option (e.g. emscripten), which allows printing,
reading files, etc. This ABI will not directly work with Typst. You will
either need to compile to a different target or [ stub all functions
](https://github.com/astrale-sharp/wasm-minimal-protocol/blob/master/wasi-
stub) .

##  Plugins and Packages

Plugins are distributed as packages. A package can make use of a plugin simply
by including a WebAssembly file and loading it. Because the byte-based plugin
interface is quite low-level, plugins are typically exposed through wrapper
functions, that also live in the same package.

##  Purity

Plugin functions must be pure: Given the same arguments, they must always
return the same value. The reason for this is that Typst functions must be
pure (which is quite fundamental to the language design) and, since Typst
function can call plugin functions, this requirement is inherited. In
particular, if a plugin function is called twice with the same arguments,
Typst might cache the results and call your function only once.

##  Example

    
    
    #let myplugin = plugin("hello.wasm")
    #let concat(a, b) = str(
      myplugin.concatenate(
        bytes(a),
        bytes(b),
      )
    )
    
    #concat("hello", "world")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Vj65tyYDxxD3OHZUaiQ94QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Protocol

To be used as a plugin, a WebAssembly module must conform to the following
protocol:

###  Exports

A plugin module can export functions to make them callable from Typst. To
conform to the protocol, an exported function should:

  * Take ` n ` 32-bit integer arguments ` a_1 ` , ` a_2 ` , ..., ` a_n ` (interpreted as lengths, so ` usize/size_t ` may be preferable), and return one 32-bit integer. 

  * The function should first allocate a buffer ` buf ` of length ` a_1 + a_2 + ... + a_n ` , and then call ` wasm_minimal_protocol_write_args_to_buffer(buf.ptr) ` . 

  * The ` a_1 ` first bytes of the buffer now constitute the first argument, the ` a_2 ` next bytes the second argument, and so on. 

  * The function can now do its job with the arguments and produce an output buffer. Before returning, it should call ` wasm_minimal_protocol_send_result_to_host ` to send its result back to the host. 

  * To signal success, the function should return ` 0 ` . 

  * To signal an error, the function should return ` 1 ` . The written buffer is then interpreted as an UTF-8 encoded error message. 

###  Imports

Plugin modules need to import two functions that are provided by the runtime.
(Types and functions are described using WAT syntax.)

  * ` (import "typst_env" "wasm_minimal_protocol_write_args_to_buffer" (func (param i32))) `

Writes the arguments for the current function into a plugin-allocated buffer.
When a plugin function is called, it  receives the lengths  of its input
buffers as arguments. It should then allocate a buffer whose capacity is at
least the sum of these lengths. It should then call this function with a ` ptr
` to the buffer to fill it with the arguments, one after another.

  * ` (import "typst_env" "wasm_minimal_protocol_send_result_to_host" (func (param i32 i32))) `

Sends the output of the current function to the host (Typst). The first
parameter shall be a pointer to a buffer ( ` ptr ` ), while the second is the
length of that buffer ( ` len ` ). The memory pointed at by ` ptr ` can be
freed immediately after this function returns. If the message should be
interpreted as an error message, it should be encoded as UTF-8.

##  Resources

For more resources, check out the [ wasm-minimal-protocol repository
](https://github.com/astrale-sharp/wasm-minimal-protocol) . It contains:

  * A list of example plugin implementations and a test runner for these examples 
  * Wrappers to help you write your plugin in Rust (Zig wrapper in development) 
  * A stubber for WASI 

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Creates a new plugin from a WebAssembly file.

plugin  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ plugin ](/docs/reference/foundations/plugin/)

####  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path to a WebAssembly file.

For more details, see the [ Paths section ](/docs/reference/syntax/#paths) .

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Panic  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/panic/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Regex  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/calc.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Calculation ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc)

#  Calculation

Module for calculations and processing of numeric values.

These definitions are part of the ` calc ` module and not imported by default.
In addition to the functions listed below, the ` calc ` module also defines
the constants ` pi ` , ` tau ` , ` e ` , and ` inf ` .

##  Functions

###  ` abs `

Calculates the absolute value of a numeric value.

calc  .  abs  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/) [
ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> any

    
    
    #calc.abs(-5) \
    #calc.abs(5pt - 2cm) \
    #calc.abs(2fr) \
    #calc.abs(decimal("-342.440"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1nPNk-RAyXUEHrAszyCnUgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)
or  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value whose absolute value to calculate.

###  ` pow `

Raises a value to some exponent.

calc  .  pow  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #calc.pow(2, 3) \
    #calc.pow(decimal("2.5"), 2)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YQoOsFNxPEgW0b-n9B_VrAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` base `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The base of the power.

If this is a [ ` decimal ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`")
, the exponent can only be an [ integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) .

####  ` exponent `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The exponent of the power.

###  ` exp `

Raises a value to some exponent of e.

calc  .  exp  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.exp(1)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/D3jiA5mgoQIx6MVn4Oy4zwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` exponent `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The exponent of the power.

###  ` sqrt `

Calculates the square root of a number.

calc  .  sqrt  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.sqrt(16) \
    #calc.sqrt(2.5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/rSjz1bWkkKYqxmWjxezFTwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number whose square root to calculate. Must be non-negative.

###  ` root `

Calculates the real nth root of a number.

If the number is negative, then n must be odd.

calc  .  root  (

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.root(16.0, 4) \
    #calc.root(27.0, 3)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/g3rxlqoTGgoCjLtiE7bcKAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` radicand `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The expression to take the root of

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Which root of the radicand to take

###  ` sin `

Calculates the sine of an angle.

When called with an integer or a float, they will be interpreted as radians.

calc  .  sin  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.sin(1.5) \
    #calc.sin(90deg)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DRz-f64JvhHssm4WgSEL2QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` angle `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The angle whose sine to calculate.

###  ` cos `

Calculates the cosine of an angle.

When called with an integer or a float, they will be interpreted as radians.

calc  .  cos  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.cos(1.5) \
    #calc.cos(90deg)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/RQec6gdJF5QvRwZkvI-50gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` angle `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The angle whose cosine to calculate.

###  ` tan `

Calculates the tangent of an angle.

When called with an integer or a float, they will be interpreted as radians.

calc  .  tan  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.tan(1.5) \
    #calc.tan(90deg)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Mu6UfN_4464KJhy78wvp_wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` angle `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ angle
](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The angle whose tangent to calculate.

###  ` asin `

Calculates the arcsine of a number.

calc  .  asin  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

    
    
    #calc.asin(0) \
    #calc.asin(1)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/R-fP2bsKqek6CrHRxsmlvQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number whose arcsine to calculate. Must be between -1 and 1.

###  ` acos `

Calculates the arccosine of a number.

calc  .  acos  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

    
    
    #calc.acos(0) \
    #calc.acos(1)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/34tvtgPRx9Zb0oFQtdkEngAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number whose arcsine to calculate. Must be between -1 and 1.

###  ` atan `

Calculates the arctangent of a number.

calc  .  atan  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

    
    
    #calc.atan(0) \
    #calc.atan(1)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Ks5iB4MwWXNAVXeSMihDJAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number whose arctangent to calculate.

###  ` atan2 `

Calculates the four-quadrant arctangent of a coordinate.

The arguments are ` (x, y) ` , not ` (y, x) ` .

calc  .  atan2  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) ,

)  -> [ angle ](/docs/reference/layout/angle/)

    
    
    #calc.atan2(1, 1) \
    #calc.atan2(-2, -3)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/R3PgftYITRsSLYBeQqKe3wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` x `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The X coordinate.

####  ` y `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The Y coordinate.

###  ` sinh `

Calculates the hyperbolic sine of a hyperbolic angle.

calc  .  sinh  (

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.sinh(0) \
    #calc.sinh(1.5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Si7LVr220y-yjr6frD5mYQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The hyperbolic angle whose hyperbolic sine to calculate.

###  ` cosh `

Calculates the hyperbolic cosine of a hyperbolic angle.

calc  .  cosh  (

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.cosh(0) \
    #calc.cosh(1.5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Vut_ujHW8enJAdOI95v6bgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The hyperbolic angle whose hyperbolic cosine to calculate.

###  ` tanh `

Calculates the hyperbolic tangent of an hyperbolic angle.

calc  .  tanh  (

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.tanh(0) \
    #calc.tanh(1.5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8omHKWMEXh9ltcsWpm4RDQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The hyperbolic angle whose hyperbolic tangent to calculate.

###  ` log `

Calculates the logarithm of a number.

If the base is not specified, the logarithm is calculated in base 10.

calc  .  log  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) ,  base  :  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) ,

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.log(100)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4te-fP3EFYf9CFfXTNeLbgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number whose logarithm to calculate. Must be strictly positive.

####  ` base `

[ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

The base of the logarithm. May not be zero.

Default: ` 10.0  `

###  ` ln `

Calculates the natural logarithm of a number.

calc  .  ln  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #calc.ln(calc.e)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ahMgc30uVaXMdJx4f9b76gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number whose logarithm to calculate. Must be strictly positive.

###  ` fact `

Calculates the factorial of a number.

calc  .  fact  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #calc.fact(5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Hx0vydXttNRUJbbdDSvGlwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` number `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number whose factorial to calculate. Must be non-negative.

###  ` perm `

Calculates a permutation.

Returns the ` k ` -permutation of ` n ` , or the number of ways to choose ` k
` items from a set of ` n ` with regard to order.

calc  .  perm  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    $ "perm"(n, k) &= n!/((n - k)!) \
      "perm"(5, 3) &= #calc.perm(5, 3) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/7mAf4sPmhe6rKKzamBE-iAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` base `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The base number. Must be non-negative.

####  ` numbers `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number of permutations. Must be non-negative.

###  ` binom `

Calculates a binomial coefficient.

Returns the ` k ` -combination of ` n ` , or the number of ways to choose ` k
` items from a set of ` n ` without regard to order.

calc  .  binom  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #calc.binom(10, 5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3evQc1ME4eQqbzXhrmJ5lAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` n `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The upper coefficient. Must be non-negative.

####  ` k `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The lower coefficient. Must be non-negative.

###  ` gcd `

Calculates the greatest common divisor of two integers.

calc  .  gcd  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #calc.gcd(7, 42)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qOIwQyXpCnrSkONAOnIDgAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` a `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The first integer.

####  ` b `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The second integer.

###  ` lcm `

Calculates the least common multiple of two integers.

calc  .  lcm  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #calc.lcm(96, 13)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/BsSZQG52_995RG9zgRumuAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` a `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The first integer.

####  ` b `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The second integer.

###  ` floor `

Rounds a number down to the nearest integer.

If the number is already an integer, it is returned unchanged.

Note that this function will always return an [ integer
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) , and will error if the resulting [ `
float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") or [ ` decimal `
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`") is larger than the maximum
64-bit signed integer or smaller than the minimum for that type.

calc  .  floor  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #calc.floor(500.1)
    #assert(calc.floor(3) == 3)
    #assert(calc.floor(3.14) == 3)
    #assert(calc.floor(decimal("-3.14")) == -4)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3pMWbIkij09wRgebD43VQgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to round down.

###  ` ceil `

Rounds a number up to the nearest integer.

If the number is already an integer, it is returned unchanged.

Note that this function will always return an [ integer
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) , and will error if the resulting [ `
float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") or [ ` decimal `
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`") is larger than the maximum
64-bit signed integer or smaller than the minimum for that type.

calc  .  ceil  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #calc.ceil(500.1)
    #assert(calc.ceil(3) == 3)
    #assert(calc.ceil(3.14) == 4)
    #assert(calc.ceil(decimal("-3.14")) == -3)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/XVF6AbxDnXwmraGN-Eh1MgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to round up.

###  ` trunc `

Returns the integer part of a number.

If the number is already an integer, it is returned unchanged.

Note that this function will always return an [ integer
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) , and will error if the resulting [ `
float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") or [ ` decimal `
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`") is larger than the maximum
64-bit signed integer or smaller than the minimum for that type.

calc  .  trunc  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #calc.trunc(15.9)
    #assert(calc.trunc(3) == 3)
    #assert(calc.trunc(-3.7) == -3)
    #assert(calc.trunc(decimal("8493.12949582390")) == 8493)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0ASdokWmhACxp3cbdBzSiwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to truncate.

###  ` fract `

Returns the fractional part of a number.

If the number is an integer, returns ` 0 ` .

calc  .  fract  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #calc.fract(-3.1)
    #assert(calc.fract(3) == 0)
    #assert(calc.fract(decimal("234.23949211")) == decimal("0.23949211"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3TGIWh2MEGFIDAB8C1nEQAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to truncate.

###  ` round `

Rounds a number to the nearest integer away from zero.

Optionally, a number of decimal places can be specified.

If the number of digits is negative, its absolute value will indicate the
amount of significant integer digits to remove before the decimal point.

Note that this function will return the same type as the operand. That is,
applying ` round ` to a [ ` float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/
"`float`") will return a ` float ` , and to a [ ` decimal `
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`") , another ` decimal ` .
You may explicitly convert the output of this function to an integer with [ `
int ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/ "`int`") , but note that such a
conversion will error if the ` float ` or ` decimal ` is larger than the
maximum 64-bit signed integer or smaller than the minimum integer.

In addition, this function can error if there is an attempt to round beyond
the maximum or minimum integer or ` decimal ` . If the number is a ` float ` ,
such an attempt will cause ` float  .  inf ` or ` -  float  .  inf ` to be
returned for maximum and minimum respectively.

calc  .  round  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  digits  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #calc.round(3.1415, digits: 2)
    #assert(calc.round(3) == 3)
    #assert(calc.round(3.14) == 3)
    #assert(calc.round(3.5) == 4.0)
    #assert(calc.round(3333.45, digits: -2) == 3300.0)
    #assert(calc.round(-48953.45, digits: -3) == -49000.0)
    #assert(calc.round(3333, digits: -2) == 3300)
    #assert(calc.round(-48953, digits: -3) == -49000)
    #assert(calc.round(decimal("-6.5")) == decimal("-7"))
    #assert(calc.round(decimal("7.123456789"), digits: 6) == decimal("7.123457"))
    #assert(calc.round(decimal("3333.45"), digits: -2) == decimal("3300"))
    #assert(calc.round(decimal("-48953.45"), digits: -3) == decimal("-49000"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/S2fXMNcPylTq6uwl7ZRpoAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to round.

####  ` digits `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

If positive, the number of decimal places.

If negative, the number of significant integer digits that should be removed
before the decimal point.

Default: ` 0  `

###  ` clamp `

Clamps a number between a minimum and maximum value.

calc  .  clamp  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #calc.clamp(5, 0, 4)
    #assert(calc.clamp(5, 0, 10) == 5)
    #assert(calc.clamp(5, 6, 10) == 6)
    #assert(calc.clamp(decimal("5.45"), 2, decimal("45.9")) == decimal("5.45"))
    #assert(calc.clamp(decimal("5.45"), decimal("6.75"), 12) == decimal("6.75"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IT7doIU2fH1UJf0E_SPc6QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to clamp.

####  ` min `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The inclusive minimum value.

####  ` max `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The inclusive maximum value.

###  ` min `

Determines the minimum of a sequence of values.

calc  .  min  (

..  any

)  -> any

    
    
    #calc.min(1, -3, -5, 20, 3, 6) \
    #calc.min("typst", "is", "cool")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/afOSrjdOAc_1RzzU2hxUIgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` values `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The sequence of values from which to extract the minimum. Must not be empty.

###  ` max `

Determines the maximum of a sequence of values.

calc  .  max  (

..  any

)  -> any

    
    
    #calc.max(1, -3, -5, 20, 3, 6) \
    #calc.max("typst", "is", "cool")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/B8vbsVaOK7Ilt-aRhfDiFwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` values `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The sequence of values from which to extract the maximum. Must not be empty.

###  ` even `

Determines whether an integer is even.

calc  .  even  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

    
    
    #calc.even(4) \
    #calc.even(5) \
    #range(10).filter(calc.even)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YVF-q96_WeIoAbwweursAAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to check for evenness.

###  ` odd `

Determines whether an integer is odd.

calc  .  odd  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

    
    
    #calc.odd(4) \
    #calc.odd(5) \
    #range(10).filter(calc.odd)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/54xiVFQnQ9FIdgInF0A_jAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The number to check for oddness.

###  ` rem `

Calculates the remainder of two numbers.

The value ` calc.rem(x, y) ` always has the same sign as ` x ` , and is
smaller in magnitude than ` y ` .

This can error if given a [ ` decimal ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/
"`decimal`") input and the dividend is too small in magnitude compared to the
divisor.

calc  .  rem  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #calc.rem(7, 3) \
    #calc.rem(7, -3) \
    #calc.rem(-7, 3) \
    #calc.rem(-7, -3) \
    #calc.rem(1.75, 0.5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/h9kAd8BZ_4qaZUm7WWIpgQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` dividend `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The dividend of the remainder.

####  ` divisor `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The divisor of the remainder.

###  ` div-euclid `

Performs euclidean division of two numbers.

The result of this computation is that of a division rounded to the integer `
n ` such that the dividend is greater than or equal to ` n ` times the
divisor.

calc  .  div-euclid  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #calc.div-euclid(7, 3) \
    #calc.div-euclid(7, -3) \
    #calc.div-euclid(-7, 3) \
    #calc.div-euclid(-7, -3) \
    #calc.div-euclid(1.75, 0.5) \
    #calc.div-euclid(decimal("1.75"), decimal("0.5"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/496IGVvoarlmERajiTFs_gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` dividend `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The dividend of the division.

####  ` divisor `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The divisor of the division.

###  ` rem-euclid `

This calculates the least nonnegative remainder of a division.

Warning: Due to a floating point round-off error, the remainder may equal the
absolute value of the divisor if the dividend is much smaller in magnitude
than the divisor and the dividend is negative. This only applies for floating
point inputs.

In addition, this can error if given a [ ` decimal `
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`") input and the dividend is
too small in magnitude compared to the divisor.

calc  .  rem-euclid  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #calc.rem-euclid(7, 3) \
    #calc.rem-euclid(7, -3) \
    #calc.rem-euclid(-7, 3) \
    #calc.rem-euclid(-7, -3) \
    #calc.rem-euclid(1.75, 0.5) \
    #calc.rem-euclid(decimal("1.75"), decimal("0.5"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ysX2HLC-rfWACinwigYcWgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` dividend `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The dividend of the remainder.

####  ` divisor `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The divisor of the remainder.

###  ` quo `

Calculates the quotient (floored division) of two numbers.

Note that this function will always return an [ integer
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) , and will error if the resulting [ `
float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") or [ ` decimal `
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/ "`decimal`") is larger than the maximum
64-bit signed integer or smaller than the minimum for that type.

calc  .  quo  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    $ "quo"(a, b) &= floor(a/b) \
      "quo"(14, 5) &= #calc.quo(14, 5) \
      "quo"(3.46, 0.5) &= #calc.quo(3.46, 0.5) $
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/AEhIvOjgCcBZo0GMCLQ9tQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` dividend `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The dividend of the quotient.

####  ` divisor `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The divisor of the quotient.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Bytes  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Content  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/repr.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Representation ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/)

#  ` repr `

Returns the string representation of a value.

When inserted into content, most values are displayed as this representation
in monospace with syntax-highlighting. The exceptions are ` none  ` ,
integers, floats, strings, content, and functions.

**Note:** This function is for debugging purposes. Its output should not be
considered stable and may change at any time!

##  Example

    
    
    #none vs #repr(none) \
    #"hello" vs #repr("hello") \
    #(1, 2) vs #repr((1, 2)) \
    #[*Hi*] vs #repr([*Hi*])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hOvQAQDTPr3WAVu4x8HkgwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

repr  (

any

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

###  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value whose string representation to produce.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Regex  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Selector  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/content.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

#  content

A piece of document content.

This type is at the heart of Typst. All markup you write and most [ functions
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) you call produce content values. You
can create a content value by enclosing markup in square brackets. This is
also how you pass content to functions.

##  Example

    
    
    Type of *Hello!* is
    #type([*Hello!*])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/X4qekl24YgH3SaXf1J0tagAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Content can be added with the ` + ` operator, [ joined together
](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) and multiplied with integers. Wherever
content is expected, you can also pass a [ string
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or ` none  ` .

##  Representation

Content consists of elements with fields. When constructing an element with
its _element function,_ you provide these fields as arguments and when you
have a content value, you can access its fields with [ field access syntax
](/docs/reference/scripting/#field-access) .

Some fields are required: These must be provided when constructing an element
and as a consequence, they are always available through field access on
content of that type. Required fields are marked as such in the documentation.

Most fields are optional: Like required fields, they can be passed to the
element function to configure them for a single element. However, these can
also be configured with [ set rules ](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules) to
apply them to all elements within a scope. Optional fields are only available
with field access syntax when they were explicitly passed to the element
function, not when they result from a set rule.

Each element has a default appearance. However, you can also completely
customize its appearance with a [ show rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-
rules) . The show rule is passed the element. It can access the element's
field and produce arbitrary content from it.

In the web app, you can hover over a content variable to see exactly which
elements the content is composed of and what fields they have. Alternatively,
you can inspect the output of the [ ` repr `
](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/ "`repr`") function.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` func `

The content's element function. This function can be used to create the
element contained in this content. It can be used in set and show rules for
the element. Can be compared with global functions to check whether you have a
specific kind of element.

self  .  func  (

)  -> [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

###  ` has `

Whether the content has the specified field.

self  .  has  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` field `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The field to look for.

###  ` at `

Access the specified field on the content. Returns the default value if the
field does not exist or fails with an error if no default value was specified.

self  .  at  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` field `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The field to access.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the field does not exist.

###  ` fields `

Returns the fields of this content.

self  .  fields  (

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

    
    
    #rect(
      width: 10cm,
      height: 10cm,
    ).fields()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zNlYUwJ_V8GS40gGav-GlwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` location `

The location of the content. This is only available on content returned by [
query ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "query") or provided by a [ show
rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) , for other content it will be `
none  ` . The resulting location can be used with [ counters
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/) , [ state
](/docs/reference/introspection/state/ "state") and [ queries
](/docs/reference/introspection/query/) .

self  .  location  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Calculation  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Datetime  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/regex.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Regex ](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

#  regex

A regular expression.

Can be used as a [ show rule selector ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules)
and with [ string methods ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) like ` find ` ,
` split ` , and ` replace ` .

[ See here ](https://docs.rs/regex/latest/regex/#syntax) for a specification
of the supported syntax.

##  Example

    
    
    // Works with string methods.
    #"a,b;c".split(regex("[,;]"))
    
    // Works with show rules.
    #show regex("\d+"): set text(red)
    
    The numbers 1 to 10.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/UtfXJAklKdjyBZ3HmRwY-AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Create a regular expression from a string.

regex  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ regex ](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

####  ` regex `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The regular expression as a string.

Most regex escape sequences just work because they are not valid Typst escape
sequences. To produce regex escape sequences that are also valid in Typst
(e.g. ` \\  ` ), you need to escape twice. Thus, to match a verbatim
backslash, you would need to write ` regex  (  "\\\\"  )  ` .

If you need many escape sequences, you can also create a raw element and
extract its text to use it for your regular expressions:

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

` regex  (  `\d+\.\d+\.\d+`  .  text  )  ` .

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Plugin  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/plugin/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Representation  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/int.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

#  int

A whole number.

The number can be negative, zero, or positive. As Typst uses 64 bits to store
integers, integers cannot be smaller than ` -  9223372036854775808  ` or
larger than ` 9223372036854775807  ` .

The number can also be specified as hexadecimal, octal, or binary by starting
it with a zero followed by either ` x ` , ` o ` , or ` b ` .

You can convert a value to an integer with this type's constructor.

##  Example

    
    
    #(1 + 2) \
    #(2 - 5) \
    #(3 + 4 < 8)
    
    #0xff \
    #0o10 \
    #0b1001
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/wfpxRJDZrNeGDA3RjEgFJgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to an integer. Raises an error if there is an attempt to
produce an integer larger than the maximum 64-bit signed integer or smaller
than the minimum 64-bit signed integer.

  * Booleans are converted to ` 0 ` or ` 1 ` . 
  * Floats and decimals are truncated to the next 64-bit integer. 
  * Strings are parsed in base 10. 

int  (

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #int(false) \
    #int(true) \
    #int(2.7) \
    #int(decimal("3.8")) \
    #(int("27") + int("4"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4vDM_wHvGAGqziHd9y2LQQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to an integer.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` signum `

Calculates the sign of an integer.

  * If the number is positive, returns ` 1  ` . 
  * If the number is negative, returns ` -  1  ` . 
  * If the number is zero, returns ` 0  ` . 

self  .  signum  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #(5).signum() \
    #(-5).signum() \
    #(0).signum()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Vicm2VF6Z98sgjNZQYlaBgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` bit-not `

Calculates the bitwise NOT of an integer.

For the purposes of this function, the operand is treated as a signed integer
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-not  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #4.bit-not() \
    #(-1).bit-not()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3AYO-p6E-z3VLH4vNyWEKgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` bit-and `

Calculates the bitwise AND between two integers.

For the purposes of this function, the operands are treated as signed integers
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-and  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #128.bit-and(192)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/knwTrW-Xbj5sqbcdza7ewgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` rhs `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The right-hand operand of the bitwise AND.

###  ` bit-or `

Calculates the bitwise OR between two integers.

For the purposes of this function, the operands are treated as signed integers
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-or  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #64.bit-or(32)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zaVKMztfj-8VIfbLXeJFUAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` rhs `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The right-hand operand of the bitwise OR.

###  ` bit-xor `

Calculates the bitwise XOR between two integers.

For the purposes of this function, the operands are treated as signed integers
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-xor  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #64.bit-xor(96)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KUPqsOL5IXWcGSfAhFpL6wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` rhs `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The right-hand operand of the bitwise XOR.

###  ` bit-lshift `

Shifts the operand's bits to the left by the specified amount.

For the purposes of this function, the operand is treated as a signed integer
of 64 bits. An error will occur if the result is too large to fit in a 64-bit
integer.

self  .  bit-lshift  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #33.bit-lshift(2) \
    #(-1).bit-lshift(3)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kIVISyJsbGpK3k_fu59O2AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` shift `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The amount of bits to shift. Must not be negative.

###  ` bit-rshift `

Shifts the operand's bits to the right by the specified amount. Performs an
arithmetic shift by default (extends the sign bit to the left, such that
negative numbers stay negative), but that can be changed by the ` logical `
parameter.

For the purposes of this function, the operand is treated as a signed integer
of 64 bits.

self  .  bit-rshift  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  logical  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #64.bit-rshift(2) \
    #(-8).bit-rshift(2) \
    #(-8).bit-rshift(2, logical: true)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gebaB-CZOzDtnvfjDfjtTgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` shift `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The amount of bits to shift. Must not be negative.

Shifts larger than 63 are allowed and will cause the return value to saturate.
For non-negative numbers, the return value saturates at ` 0  ` , while, for
negative numbers, it saturates at ` -  1  ` if ` logical ` is set to ` false
` , or ` 0  ` if it is ` true  ` . This behavior is consistent with just
applying this operation multiple times. Therefore, the shift will always
succeed.

####  ` logical `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Toggles whether a logical (unsigned) right shift should be performed instead
of arithmetic right shift. If this is ` true  ` , negative operands will not
preserve their sign bit, and bits which appear to the left after the shift
will be ` 0  ` . This parameter has no effect on non-negative operands.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` from-bytes `

Converts bytes to an integer.

int  .  from-bytes  (

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) ,  endian  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  signed  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #int.from-bytes(bytes((0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1))) \
    #int.from-bytes(bytes((1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)), endian: "big")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/I0LPQ0WUii0fthcD20cosAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` bytes `

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The bytes that should be converted to an integer.

Must be of length at most 8 so that the result fits into a 64-bit signed
integer.

####  ` endian `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The endianness of the conversion.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  big  " ` |  Big-endian byte order: The highest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
` "  little  " ` |  Little-endian byte order: The lowest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
  
Default: ` "little"  `

####  ` signed `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether the bytes should be treated as a signed integer. If this is ` true  `
and the most significant bit is set, the resulting number will negative.

Default: ` true  `

###  ` to-bytes `

Converts an integer to bytes.

self  .  to-bytes  (

endian  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  size  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

    
    
    #array(10000.to-bytes(endian: "big")) \
    #array(10000.to-bytes(size: 4))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/FF7gGW4eVOEhYjIZXy8BIgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` endian `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The endianness of the conversion.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  big  " ` |  Big-endian byte order: The highest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
` "  little  " ` |  Little-endian byte order: The lowest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
  
Default: ` "little"  `

####  ` size `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The size in bytes of the resulting bytes (must be at least zero). If the
integer is too large to fit in the specified size, the conversion will
truncate the remaining bytes based on the endianness. To keep the same
resulting value, if the endianness is big-endian, the truncation will happen
at the rightmost bytes. Otherwise, if the endianness is little-endian, the
truncation will happen at the leftmost bytes.

Be aware that if the integer is negative and the size is not enough to make
the number fit, when passing the resulting bytes to ` int.from-bytes ` , the
resulting number might be positive, as the most significant bit might not be
set to 1.

Default: ` 8  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Function  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Label  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/auto.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/)

#  auto

A value that indicates a smart default.

The auto type has exactly one value: ` auto  ` .

Parameters that support the ` auto  ` value have some smart default or
contextual behaviour. A good example is the [ text direction
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-dir) parameter. Setting it to ` auto
` lets Typst automatically determine the direction from the [ text language
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) .

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Assert  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Boolean  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/sys.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ System ](/docs/reference/foundations/sys)

#  System

Module for system interactions.

This module defines the following items:

  * The ` sys.version ` constant (of type [ ` version ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/version/ "`version`") ) that specifies the currently active Typst compiler version. 

  * The ` sys.inputs ` [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/ "dictionary") , which makes external inputs available to the project. An input specified in the command line as ` --input key=value ` becomes available under ` sys.inputs.key ` as ` "value"  ` . To include spaces in the value, it may be enclosed with single or double quotes. 

The value is always of type [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) .
More complex data may be parsed manually using functions like [ ` json.decode
` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/json/#definitions-decode) .

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Style  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/style/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Type  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/function.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

#  function

A mapping from argument values to a return value.

You can call a function by writing a comma-separated list of function
_arguments_ enclosed in parentheses directly after the function name.
Additionally, you can pass any number of trailing content blocks arguments to
a function _after_ the normal argument list. If the normal argument list would
become empty, it can be omitted. Typst supports positional and named
arguments. The former are identified by position and type, while the latter
are written as ` name: value ` .

Within math mode, function calls have special behaviour. See the [ math
documentation ](/docs/reference/math/) for more details.

##  Example

    
    
    // Call a function.
    #list([A], [B])
    
    // Named arguments and trailing
    // content blocks.
    #enum(start: 2)[A][B]
    
    // Version without parentheses.
    #list[A][B]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/h8ulslRsTYE05Pu4qy5C6AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Functions are a fundamental building block of Typst. Typst provides functions
for a variety of typesetting tasks. Moreover, the markup you write is backed
by functions and all styling happens through functions. This reference lists
all available functions and how you can use them. Please also refer to the
documentation about [ set ](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules) and [ show
](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) rules to learn about additional ways
you can work with functions in Typst.

##  Element functions

Some functions are associated with _elements_ like [ headings
](/docs/reference/model/heading/) or [ tables ](/docs/reference/model/table/)
. When called, these create an element of their respective kind. In contrast
to normal functions, they can further be used in [ set rules
](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules) , [ show rules
](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) , and [ selectors
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) .

##  Function scopes

Functions can hold related definitions in their own scope, similar to a [
module ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) . Examples of this are [ `
assert.eq ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/#definitions-eq) or [ `
list.item ` ](/docs/reference/model/list/#definitions-item) . However, this
feature is currently only available for built-in functions.

##  Defining functions

You can define your own function with a [ let binding
](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) that has a parameter list after the
binding's name. The parameter list can contain mandatory positional
parameters, named parameters with default values and [ argument sinks
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/) .

The right-hand side of a function binding is the function body, which can be a
block or any other expression. It defines the function's return value and can
depend on the parameters. If the function body is a [ code block
](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) , the return value is the result of
joining the values of each expression in the block.

Within a function body, the ` return ` keyword can be used to exit early and
optionally specify a return value. If no explicit return value is given, the
body evaluates to the result of joining all expressions preceding the ` return
` .

Functions that don't return any meaningful value return [ ` none `
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/ "`none`") instead. The return type of such
functions is not explicitly specified in the documentation. (An example of
this is [ ` array.push ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-push
"`array.push`") ).

    
    
    #let alert(body, fill: red) = {
      set text(white)
      set align(center)
      rect(
        fill: fill,
        inset: 8pt,
        radius: 4pt,
        [*Warning:\ #body*],
      )
    }
    
    #alert[
      Danger is imminent!
    ]
    
    #alert(fill: blue)[
      KEEP OFF TRACKS
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/56wK4TQtzRt7_B3OQOxb7QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Importing functions

Functions can be imported from one file ( [ ` module `
](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) ) into another using ` import  ` . For
example, assume that we have defined the ` alert ` function from the previous
example in a file called ` foo.typ ` . We can import it into another file by
writing ` import  "foo.typ"  :  alert ` .

##  Unnamed functions

You can also created an unnamed function without creating a binding by
specifying a parameter list followed by ` => ` and the function body. If your
function has just one parameter, the parentheses around the parameter list are
optional. Unnamed functions are mainly useful for show rules, but also for
settable properties that take functions like the page function's [ ` footer `
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-footer) property.

    
    
    #show "once?": it => [#it #it]
    once?
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yXee-w_McX_Uho7Ghovc-QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Note on function purity

In Typst, all functions are _pure._ This means that for the same arguments,
they always return the same result. They cannot "remember" things to produce
another value when they are called a second time.

The only exception are built-in methods like [ ` array.push(value) `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-push) . These can modify the
values they are called on.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` with `

Returns a new function that has the given arguments pre-applied.

self  .  with  (

..  any

)  -> [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

####  ` arguments `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The arguments to apply to the function.

###  ` where `

Returns a selector that filters for elements belonging to this function whose
fields have the values of the given arguments.

self  .  where  (

..  any

)  -> [ selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)

    
    
    #show heading.where(level: 2): set text(blue)
    = Section
    == Subsection
    === Sub-subsection
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VOR4DpWIitR8ukDkDB2RigAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` fields `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The fields to filter for.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Float  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Integer  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/eval.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Evaluate ](/docs/reference/foundations/eval/)

#  ` eval `

Evaluates a string as Typst code.

This function should only be used as a last resort.

##  Example

    
    
    #eval("1 + 1") \
    #eval("(1, 2, 3, 4)").len() \
    #eval("*Markup!*", mode: "markup") \
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KZfqDZ_7V1ElK4um94vvjwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

eval  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  mode  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  scope  :  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,

)  -> any

###  ` source `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

A string of Typst code to evaluate.

###  ` mode `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The [ syntactical mode ](/docs/reference/syntax/#modes) in which the string is
parsed.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  code  " ` |  Evaluate as code, as after a hash.   
` "  markup  " ` |  Evaluate as markup, like in a Typst file.   
` "  math  " ` |  Evaluate as math, as in an equation.   
  
Default: ` "code"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #eval("= Heading", mode: "markup")
    #eval("1_2^3", mode: "math")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4OYmfbro6ZT1td5j4R5wyAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` scope `

[ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

A scope of definitions that are made available.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #eval("x + 1", scope: (x: 2)) \
    #eval(
      "abc/xyz",
      mode: "math",
      scope: (
        abc: $a + b + c$,
        xyz: $x + y + z$,
      ),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0vD-OzSZwxX0Gqmm8_Sk9AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Duration  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Float  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/module.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Module ](/docs/reference/foundations/module/)

#  module

An evaluated module, either built-in or resulting from a file.

You can access definitions from the module using [ field access notation
](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields) and interact with it using the [ import
and include syntaxes ](/docs/reference/scripting/#modules) . Alternatively, it
is possible to convert a module to a dictionary, and therefore access its
contents dynamically, using the [ dictionary constructor
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/#constructor) .

##  Example

    
    
    #import "utils.typ"
    #utils.add(2, 5)
    
    #import utils: sub
    #sub(1, 4)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/itOPaialNOb62A81RHFv_wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Label  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) None  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/array.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

#  array

A sequence of values.

You can construct an array by enclosing a comma-separated sequence of values
in parentheses. The values do not have to be of the same type.

You can access and update array items with the ` .at() ` method. Indices are
zero-based and negative indices wrap around to the end of the array. You can
iterate over an array using a [ for loop ](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops) .
Arrays can be added together with the ` + ` operator, [ joined together
](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) and multiplied with integers.

**Note:** An array of length one needs a trailing comma, as in ` (  1  ,  )  `
. This is to disambiguate from a simple parenthesized expressions like ` (  1
+  2  )  *  3  ` . An empty array is written as ` (  )  ` .

##  Example

    
    
    #let values = (1, 7, 4, -3, 2)
    
    #values.at(0) \
    #(values.at(0) = 3)
    #values.at(-1) \
    #values.find(calc.even) \
    #values.filter(calc.odd) \
    #values.map(calc.abs) \
    #values.rev() \
    #(1, (2, 3)).flatten() \
    #(("A", "B", "C")
        .join(", ", last: " and "))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uC3P-2nGePaWZlTLapiUowAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to an array.

Note that this function is only intended for conversion of a collection-like
value to an array, not for creation of an array from individual items. Use the
array syntax ` (1, 2, 3) ` (or ` (1,) ` for a single-element array) instead.

array  (

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ version
](/docs/reference/foundations/version/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

    
    
    #let hi = "Hello ð"
    #array(bytes(hi))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/X4h0etegVnRbtNlLnkRA5AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ version
](/docs/reference/foundations/version/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to an array.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` len `

The number of values in the array.

self  .  len  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` first `

Returns the first item in the array. May be used on the left-hand side of an
assignment. Fails with an error if the array is empty.

self  .  first  (

)  -> any

###  ` last `

Returns the last item in the array. May be used on the left-hand side of an
assignment. Fails with an error if the array is empty.

self  .  last  (

)  -> any

###  ` at `

Returns the item at the specified index in the array. May be used on the left-
hand side of an assignment. Returns the default value if the index is out of
bounds or fails with an error if no default value was specified.

self  .  at  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index at which to retrieve the item. If negative, indexes from the back.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the index is out of bounds.

###  ` push `

Adds a value to the end of the array.

self  .  push  (

any

)

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value to insert at the end of the array.

###  ` pop `

Removes the last item from the array and returns it. Fails with an error if
the array is empty.

self  .  pop  (

)  -> any

###  ` insert `

Inserts a value into the array at the specified index, shifting all subsequent
elements to the right. Fails with an error if the index is out of bounds.

To replace an element of an array, use [ ` at `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-at) .

self  .  insert  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  any  ,

)

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index at which to insert the item. If negative, indexes from the back.

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value to insert into the array.

###  ` remove `

Removes the value at the specified index from the array and return it.

self  .  remove  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index at which to remove the item. If negative, indexes from the back.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the index is out of bounds.

###  ` slice `

Extracts a subslice of the array. Fails with an error if the start or end
index is out of bounds.

self  .  slice  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  count  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The start index (inclusive). If negative, indexes from the back.

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The end index (exclusive). If omitted, the whole slice until the end of the
array is extracted. If negative, indexes from the back.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of items to extract. This is equivalent to passing ` start + count
` as the ` end ` position. Mutually exclusive with ` end ` .

###  ` contains `

Whether the array contains the specified value.

This method also has dedicated syntax: You can write ` 2  in  (  1  ,  2  ,  3
)  ` instead of ` (  1  ,  2  ,  3  )  .  contains  (  2  )  ` .

self  .  contains  (

any

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value to search for.

###  ` find `

Searches for an item for which the given function returns ` true  ` and
returns the first match or ` none  ` if there is no match.

self  .  find  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> any  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/)

####  ` searcher `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The function to apply to each item. Must return a boolean.

###  ` position `

Searches for an item for which the given function returns ` true  ` and
returns the index of the first match or ` none  ` if there is no match.

self  .  position  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

####  ` searcher `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The function to apply to each item. Must return a boolean.

###  ` range `

Create an array consisting of a sequence of numbers.

If you pass just one positional parameter, it is interpreted as the ` end ` of
the range. If you pass two, they describe the ` start ` and ` end ` of the
range.

This function is available both in the array function's scope and globally.

array  .  range  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  step  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

    
    
    #range(5) \
    #range(2, 5) \
    #range(20, step: 4) \
    #range(21, step: 4) \
    #range(5, 2, step: -1)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zrh5Y9Alyv5p1PUCuyz0bAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The start of the range (inclusive).

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` end `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The end of the range (exclusive).

####  ` step `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The distance between the generated numbers.

Default: ` 1  `

###  ` filter `

Produces a new array with only the items from the original one for which the
given function returns true.

self  .  filter  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` test `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The function to apply to each item. Must return a boolean.

###  ` map `

Produces a new array in which all items from the original one were transformed
with the given function.

self  .  map  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` mapper `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The function to apply to each item.

###  ` enumerate `

Returns a new array with the values alongside their indices.

The returned array consists of ` (index, value) ` pairs in the form of
length-2 arrays. These can be [ destructured
](/docs/reference/scripting/#bindings) with a let binding or for loop.

self  .  enumerate  (

start  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The index returned for the first pair of the returned list.

Default: ` 0  `

###  ` zip `

Zips the array with other arrays.

Returns an array of arrays, where the ` i ` th inner array contains all the `
i ` th elements from each original array.

If the arrays to be zipped have different lengths, they are zipped up to the
last element of the shortest array and all remaining elements are ignored.

This function is variadic, meaning that you can zip multiple arrays together
at once: ` (  1  ,  2  )  .  zip  (  (  "A"  ,  "B"  )  ,  (  10  ,  20  )  )
` yields ` (  (  1  ,  "A"  ,  10  )  ,  (  2  ,  "B"  ,  20  )  )  ` .

self  .  zip  (

exact  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  ..  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` exact `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether all arrays have to have the same length. For example, ` (  1  ,  2  )
.  zip  (  (  1  ,  2  ,  3  )  ,  exact  :  true  )  ` produces an error.

Default: ` false  `

####  ` others `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The arrays to zip with.

###  ` fold `

Folds all items into a single value using an accumulator function.

self  .  fold  (

any  ,  [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,

)  -> any

####  ` init `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The initial value to start with.

####  ` folder `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The folding function. Must have two parameters: One for the accumulated value
and one for an item.

###  ` sum `

Sums all items (works for all types that can be added).

self  .  sum  (

default  :  any

)  -> any

####  ` default `

any

What to return if the array is empty. Must be set if the array can be empty.

###  ` product `

Calculates the product all items (works for all types that can be multiplied).

self  .  product  (

default  :  any

)  -> any

####  ` default `

any

What to return if the array is empty. Must be set if the array can be empty.

###  ` any `

Whether the given function returns ` true  ` for any item in the array.

self  .  any  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` test `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The function to apply to each item. Must return a boolean.

###  ` all `

Whether the given function returns ` true  ` for all items in the array.

self  .  all  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` test `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The function to apply to each item. Must return a boolean.

###  ` flatten `

Combine all nested arrays into a single flat one.

self  .  flatten  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` rev `

Return a new array with the same items, but in reverse order.

self  .  rev  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` split `

Split the array at occurrences of the specified value.

self  .  split  (

any

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` at `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value to split at.

###  ` join `

Combine all items in the array into one.

self  .  join  (

any  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) ,  last  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` separator `

any  or  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

A value to insert between each item of the array.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` last `

any

An alternative separator between the last two items.

###  ` intersperse `

Returns an array with a copy of the separator value placed between adjacent
elements.

self  .  intersperse  (

any

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` separator `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that will be placed between each adjacent element.

###  ` chunks `

Splits an array into non-overlapping chunks, starting at the beginning, ending
with a single remainder chunk.

All chunks but the last have ` chunk-size ` elements. If ` exact ` is set to `
true  ` , the remainder is dropped if it contains less than ` chunk-size `
elements.

self  .  chunks  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  exact  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

    
    
    #let array = (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8)
    #array.chunks(3)
    #array.chunks(3, exact: true)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Nt1-jyrzTUv2d90xr98pvAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` chunk-size `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

How many elements each chunk may at most contain.

####  ` exact `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to keep the remainder if its size is less than ` chunk-size ` .

Default: ` false  `

###  ` windows `

Returns sliding windows of ` window-size ` elements over an array.

If the array length is less than ` window-size ` , this will return an empty
array.

self  .  windows  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

    
    
    #let array = (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8)
    #array.windows(5)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Gacy-jUdBfccX43fxzwqPgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` window-size `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

How many elements each window will contain.

###  ` sorted `

Return a sorted version of this array, optionally by a given key function. The
sorting algorithm used is stable.

Returns an error if two values could not be compared or if the key function
(if given) yields an error.

self  .  sorted  (

key  :  [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` key `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

If given, applies this function to the elements in the array to determine the
keys to sort by.

###  ` dedup `

Deduplicates all items in the array.

Returns a new array with all duplicate items removed. Only the first element
of each duplicate is kept.

self  .  dedup  (

key  :  [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

    
    
    #(1, 1, 2, 3, 1).dedup()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/N8Cp27Nhseeu9VhP3b-g0gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` key `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

If given, applies this function to the elements in the array to determine the
keys to deduplicate by.

###  ` to-dict `

Converts an array of pairs into a dictionary. The first value of each pair is
the key, the second the value.

If the same key occurs multiple times, the last value is selected.

self  .  to-dict  (

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

    
    
    #(
      ("apples", 2),
      ("peaches", 3),
      ("apples", 5),
    ).to-dict()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LmuORFz3ft0CLd-WiUZHngAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` reduce `

Reduces the elements to a single one, by repeatedly applying a reducing
operation.

If the array is empty, returns ` none  ` , otherwise, returns the result of
the reduction.

The reducing function is a closure with two arguments: an "accumulator", and
an element.

For arrays with at least one element, this is the same as [ ` array.fold `
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-fold "`array.fold`") with the
first element of the array as the initial accumulator value, folding every
subsequent element into it.

self  .  reduce  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> any

####  ` reducer `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The reducing function. Must have two parameters: One for the accumulated value
and one for an item.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Arguments  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Assert  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/datetime.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Datetime ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/)

#  datetime

Represents a date, a time, or a combination of both.

Can be created by either specifying a custom datetime using this type's
constructor function or getting the current date with [ ` datetime.today `
](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/#definitions-today) .

##  Example

    
    
    #let date = datetime(
      year: 2020,
      month: 10,
      day: 4,
    )
    
    #date.display() \
    #date.display(
      "y:[year repr:last_two]"
    )
    
    #let time = datetime(
      hour: 18,
      minute: 2,
      second: 23,
    )
    
    #time.display() \
    #time.display(
      "h:[hour repr:12][period]"
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/aJRkqg11vpsxBq0NzqAo0gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Datetime and Duration

You can get a [ duration ](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/ "duration")
by subtracting two datetime:

    
    
    #let first-of-march = datetime(day: 1, month: 3, year: 2024)
    #let first-of-jan = datetime(day: 1, month: 1, year: 2024)
    #let distance = first-of-march - first-of-jan
    #distance.hours()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xJIPnvV5Iiw8osdkiAUb_AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also add/subtract a datetime and a duration to retrieve a new, offset
datetime:

    
    
    #let date = datetime(day: 1, month: 3, year: 2024)
    #let two-days = duration(days: 2)
    #let two-days-earlier = date - two-days
    #let two-days-later = date + two-days
    
    #date.display() \
    #two-days-earlier.display() \
    #two-days-later.display()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/R-BPj6xQMFasAxM1n3h_iwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Format

You can specify a customized formatting using the [ ` display `
](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/#definitions-display) method. The
format of a datetime is specified by providing _components_ with a specified
number of _modifiers_ . A component represents a certain part of the datetime
that you want to display, and with the help of modifiers you can define how
you want to display that component. In order to display a component, you wrap
the name of the component in square brackets (e.g. ` [year] ` will display the
year). In order to add modifiers, you add a space after the component name
followed by the name of the modifier, a colon and the value of the modifier
(e.g. ` [month repr:short] ` will display the short representation of the
month).

The possible combination of components and their respective modifiers is as
follows:

  * ` year ` : Displays the year of the datetime. 
    * ` padding ` : Can be either ` zero ` , ` space ` or ` none ` . Specifies how the year is padded. 
    * ` repr ` Can be either ` full ` in which case the full year is displayed or ` last_two ` in which case only the last two digits are displayed. 
    * ` sign ` : Can be either ` automatic ` or ` mandatory ` . Specifies when the sign should be displayed. 
  * ` month ` : Displays the month of the datetime. 
    * ` padding ` : Can be either ` zero ` , ` space ` or ` none ` . Specifies how the month is padded. 
    * ` repr ` : Can be either ` numerical ` , ` long ` or ` short ` . Specifies if the month should be displayed as a number or a word. Unfortunately, when choosing the word representation, it can currently only display the English version. In the future, it is planned to support localization. 
  * ` day ` : Displays the day of the datetime. 
    * ` padding ` : Can be either ` zero ` , ` space ` or ` none ` . Specifies how the day is padded. 
  * ` week_number ` : Displays the week number of the datetime. 
    * ` padding ` : Can be either ` zero ` , ` space ` or ` none ` . Specifies how the week number is padded. 
    * ` repr ` : Can be either ` ISO ` , ` sunday ` or ` monday ` . In the case of ` ISO ` , week numbers are between 1 and 53, while the other ones are between 0 and 53. 
  * ` weekday ` : Displays the weekday of the date. 
    * ` repr ` Can be either ` long ` , ` short ` , ` sunday ` or ` monday ` . In the case of ` long ` and ` short ` , the corresponding English name will be displayed (same as for the month, other languages are currently not supported). In the case of ` sunday ` and ` monday ` , the numerical value will be displayed (assuming Sunday and Monday as the first day of the week, respectively). 
    * ` one_indexed ` : Can be either ` true ` or ` false ` . Defines whether the numerical representation of the week starts with 0 or 1. 
  * ` hour ` : Displays the hour of the date. 
    * ` padding ` : Can be either ` zero ` , ` space ` or ` none ` . Specifies how the hour is padded. 
    * ` repr ` : Can be either ` 24 ` or ` 12 ` . Changes whether the hour is displayed in the 24-hour or 12-hour format. 
  * ` period ` : The AM/PM part of the hour 
    * ` case ` : Can be ` lower ` to display it in lower case and ` upper ` to display it in upper case. 
  * ` minute ` : Displays the minute of the date. 
    * ` padding ` : Can be either ` zero ` , ` space ` or ` none ` . Specifies how the minute is padded. 
  * ` second ` : Displays the second of the date. 
    * ` padding ` : Can be either ` zero ` , ` space ` or ` none ` . Specifies how the second is padded. 

Keep in mind that not always all components can be used. For example, if you
create a new datetime with ` datetime  (  year  :  2023  ,  month  :  10  ,
day  :  13  )  ` , it will be stored as a plain date internally, meaning that
you cannot use components such as ` hour ` or ` minute ` , which would only
work on datetimes that have a specified time.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Creates a new datetime.

You can specify the [ datetime ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/
"datetime") using a year, month, day, hour, minute, and second.

_Note_ : Depending on which components of the datetime you specify, Typst will
store it in one of the following three ways:

  * If you specify year, month and day, Typst will store just a date. 
  * If you specify hour, minute and second, Typst will store just a time. 
  * If you specify all of year, month, day, hour, minute and second, Typst will store a full datetime. 

Depending on how it is stored, the [ ` display `
](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/#definitions-display) method will
choose a different formatting by default.

datetime  (

year  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  month  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  day  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  hour  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  minute  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  second  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ datetime ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/)

    
    
    #datetime(
      year: 2012,
      month: 8,
      day: 3,
    ).display()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6mpnNRypNysjXvXstSouiwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` year `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The year of the datetime.

####  ` month `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The month of the datetime.

####  ` day `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The day of the datetime.

####  ` hour `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The hour of the datetime.

####  ` minute `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The minute of the datetime.

####  ` second `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The second of the datetime.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` today `

Returns the current date.

datetime  .  today  (

offset  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ datetime ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/)

    
    
    Today's date is
    #datetime.today().display().
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/SOSDKByfy_YbHbk7NejgOQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` offset `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

An offset to apply to the current UTC date. If set to ` auto  ` , the offset
will be the local offset.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` display `

Displays the datetime in a specified format.

Depending on whether you have defined just a date, a time or both, the default
format will be different. If you specified a date, it will be `
[year]-[month]-[day] ` . If you specified a time, it will be `
[hour]:[minute]:[second] ` . In the case of a datetime, it will be `
[year]-[month]-[day] [hour]:[minute]:[second] ` .

See the [ format syntax ](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/#format) for
more information.

self  .  display  (

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` pattern `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The format used to display the datetime.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` year `

The year if it was specified, or ` none  ` for times without a date.

self  .  year  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` month `

The month if it was specified, or ` none  ` for times without a date.

self  .  month  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` weekday `

The weekday (counting Monday as 1) or ` none  ` for times without a date.

self  .  weekday  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` day `

The day if it was specified, or ` none  ` for times without a date.

self  .  day  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` hour `

The hour if it was specified, or ` none  ` for dates without a time.

self  .  hour  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` minute `

The minute if it was specified, or ` none  ` for dates without a time.

self  .  minute  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` second `

The second if it was specified, or ` none  ` for dates without a time.

self  .  second  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` ordinal `

The ordinal (day of the year), or ` none  ` for times without a date.

self  .  ordinal  (

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Content  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Decimal  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/dictionary.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

#  dictionary

A map from string keys to values.

You can construct a dictionary by enclosing comma-separated ` key: value `
pairs in parentheses. The values do not have to be of the same type. Since
empty parentheses already yield an empty array, you have to use the special `
(:) ` syntax to create an empty dictionary.

A dictionary is conceptually similar to an array, but it is indexed by strings
instead of integers. You can access and create dictionary entries with the `
.at() ` method. If you know the key statically, you can alternatively use [
field access notation ](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields) ( ` .key ` ) to
access the value. Dictionaries can be added with the ` + ` operator and [
joined together ](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) . To check whether a key
is present in the dictionary, use the ` in ` keyword.

You can iterate over the pairs in a dictionary using a [ for loop
](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops) . This will iterate in the order the pairs
were inserted / declared.

##  Example

    
    
    #let dict = (
      name: "Typst",
      born: 2019,
    )
    
    #dict.name \
    #(dict.launch = 20)
    #dict.len() \
    #dict.keys() \
    #dict.values() \
    #dict.at("born") \
    #dict.insert("city", "Berlin ")
    #("name" in dict)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1ByIQqDPZ4VVxPmFNoQXgwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value into a dictionary.

Note that this function is only intended for conversion of a dictionary-like
value to a dictionary, not for creation of a dictionary from individual pairs.
Use the dictionary syntax ` (key: value) ` instead.

dictionary  (

[ module ](/docs/reference/foundations/module/)

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

    
    
    #dictionary(sys).at("version")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/vrwNZ5Jfl6kz7gYnEOsM0AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ module ](/docs/reference/foundations/module/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to a dictionary.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` len `

The number of pairs in the dictionary.

self  .  len  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` at `

Returns the value associated with the specified key in the dictionary. May be
used on the left-hand side of an assignment if the key is already present in
the dictionary. Returns the default value if the key is not part of the
dictionary or fails with an error if no default value was specified.

self  .  at  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` key `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The key at which to retrieve the item.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the key is not part of the dictionary.

###  ` insert `

Inserts a new pair into the dictionary. If the dictionary already contains
this key, the value is updated.

self  .  insert  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  any  ,

)

####  ` key `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The key of the pair that should be inserted.

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value of the pair that should be inserted.

###  ` remove `

Removes a pair from the dictionary by key and return the value.

self  .  remove  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` key `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The key of the pair to remove.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the key does not exist.

###  ` keys `

Returns the keys of the dictionary as an array in insertion order.

self  .  keys  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` values `

Returns the values of the dictionary as an array in insertion order.

self  .  values  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` pairs `

Returns the keys and values of the dictionary as an array of pairs. Each pair
is represented as an array of length two.

self  .  pairs  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Decimal  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Duration  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/bytes.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

#  bytes

A sequence of bytes.

This is conceptually similar to an array of [ integers
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) between ` 0  ` and ` 255  ` , but
represented much more efficiently. You can iterate over it using a [ for loop
](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops) .

You can convert

  * a [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or an [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") of integers to bytes with the [ ` bytes ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/ "`bytes`") constructor 
  * bytes to a string with the [ ` str ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/ "`str`") constructor, with UTF-8 encoding 
  * bytes to an array of integers with the [ ` array ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "`array`") constructor 

When [ reading ](/docs/reference/data-loading/read/) data from a file, you can
decide whether to load it as a string or as raw bytes.

    
    
    #bytes((123, 160, 22, 0)) \
    #bytes("Hello ð")
    
    #let data = read(
      "rhino.png",
      encoding: none,
    )
    
    // Magic bytes.
    #array(data.slice(0, 4)) \
    #str(data.slice(1, 4))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/sJtYFgVyQkDZELEHje5ywwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to bytes.

  * Strings are encoded in UTF-8. 
  * Arrays of integers between ` 0  ` and ` 255  ` are converted directly. The dedicated byte representation is much more efficient than the array representation and thus typically used for large byte buffers (e.g. image data). 

bytes  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

    
    
    #bytes("Hello ð") \
    #bytes((123, 160, 22, 0))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PlfVajGmfDLMY6p8X4S3BwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to bytes.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` len `

The length in bytes.

self  .  len  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` at `

Returns the byte at the specified index. Returns the default value if the
index is out of bounds or fails with an error if no default value was
specified.

self  .  at  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index at which to retrieve the byte.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the index is out of bounds.

###  ` slice `

Extracts a subslice of the bytes. Fails with an error if the start or end
index is out of bounds.

self  .  slice  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  count  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The start index (inclusive).

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The end index (exclusive). If omitted, the whole slice until the end is
extracted.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of items to extract. This is equivalent to passing ` start + count
` as the ` end ` position. Mutually exclusive with ` end ` .

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Boolean  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Calculation  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/version.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Version ](/docs/reference/foundations/version/)

#  version

A version with an arbitrary number of components.

The first three components have names that can be used as fields: ` major ` ,
` minor ` , ` patch ` . All following components do not have names.

The list of components is semantically extended by an infinite list of zeros.
This means that, for example, ` 0.8 ` is the same as ` 0.8.0 ` . As a special
case, the empty version (that has no components at all) is the same as ` 0 ` ,
` 0.0 ` , ` 0.0.0 ` , and so on.

The current version of the Typst compiler is available as ` sys.version ` .

You can convert a version to an array of explicitly given components using the
[ ` array ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "`array`") constructor.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Creates a new version.

It can have any number of components (even zero).

version  (

..  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

)  -> [ version ](/docs/reference/foundations/version/)

    
    
    #version() \
    #version(1) \
    #version(1, 2, 3, 4) \
    #version((1, 2, 3, 4)) \
    #version((1, 2), 3)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Fx1_6ds8kbJ35Werk0qIqQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` components `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The components of the version (array arguments are flattened)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` at `

Retrieves a component of a version.

The returned integer is always non-negative. Returns ` 0 ` if the version
isn't specified to the necessary length.

self  .  at  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index at which to retrieve the component. If negative, indexes from the
back of the explicitly given components.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Type  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/type/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Model  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/str.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ String ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

#  str

A sequence of Unicode codepoints.

You can iterate over the grapheme clusters of the string using a [ for loop
](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops) . Grapheme clusters are basically
characters but keep together things that belong together, e.g. multiple
codepoints that together form a flag emoji. Strings can be added with the ` +
` operator, [ joined together ](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) and
multiplied with integers.

Typst provides utility methods for string manipulation. Many of these methods
(e.g., ` split ` , ` trim ` and ` replace ` ) operate on _patterns:_ A pattern
can be either a string or a [ regular expression
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) . This makes the methods quite
versatile.

All lengths and indices are expressed in terms of UTF-8 bytes. Indices are
zero-based and negative indices wrap around to the end of the string.

You can convert a value to a string with this type's constructor.

##  Example

    
    
    #"hello world!" \
    #"\"hello\n  world\"!" \
    #"1 2 3".split() \
    #"1,2;3".split(regex("[,;]")) \
    #(regex("\d+") in "ten euros") \
    #(regex("\d+") in "10 euros")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gK89AnI9k7dy82m9R3F1jgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Escape sequences

Just like in markup, you can escape a few symbols in strings:

  * ` \\  ` for a backslash 
  * ` \"  ` for a quote 
  * ` \n  ` for a newline 
  * ` \r  ` for a carriage return 
  * ` \t  ` for a tab 
  * ` \u{1f600}  ` for a hexadecimal Unicode escape sequence 

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to a string.

  * Integers are formatted in base 10. This can be overridden with the optional ` base ` parameter. 
  * Floats are formatted in base 10 and never in exponential notation. 
  * From labels the name is extracted. 
  * Bytes are decoded as UTF-8. 

If you wish to convert from and to Unicode code points, see the [ ` to-unicode
` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-to-unicode) and [ ` from-
unicode ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/#definitions-from-unicode)
functions.

str  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) [ version
](/docs/reference/foundations/version/) [ type
](/docs/reference/foundations/type/) ,  base  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

    
    
    #str(10) \
    #str(4000, base: 16) \
    #str(2.7) \
    #str(1e8) \
    #str(<intro>)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/06jR9z-fP-M4eu8XB2MFnAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ bytes
](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) or  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/) or  [ version
](/docs/reference/foundations/version/) or  [ type
](/docs/reference/foundations/type/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to a string.

####  ` base `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The base (radix) to display integers in, between 2 and 36.

Default: ` 10  `

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` len `

The length of the string in UTF-8 encoded bytes.

self  .  len  (

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

###  ` first `

Extracts the first grapheme cluster of the string. Fails with an error if the
string is empty.

self  .  first  (

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

###  ` last `

Extracts the last grapheme cluster of the string. Fails with an error if the
string is empty.

self  .  last  (

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

###  ` at `

Extracts the first grapheme cluster after the specified index. Returns the
default value if the index is out of bounds or fails with an error if no
default value was specified.

self  .  at  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` index `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The byte index. If negative, indexes from the back.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the index is out of bounds.

###  ` slice `

Extracts a substring of the string. Fails with an error if the start or end
index is out of bounds.

self  .  slice  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  count  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The start byte index (inclusive). If negative, indexes from the back.

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The end byte index (exclusive). If omitted, the whole slice until the end of
the string is extracted. If negative, indexes from the back.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of bytes to extract. This is equivalent to passing ` start + count
` as the ` end ` position. Mutually exclusive with ` end ` .

###  ` clusters `

Returns the grapheme clusters of the string as an array of substrings.

self  .  clusters  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` codepoints `

Returns the Unicode codepoints of the string as an array of substrings.

self  .  codepoints  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` to-unicode `

Converts a character into its corresponding code point.

str  .  to-unicode  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

    
    
    #"a".to-unicode() \
    #("a\u{0300}"
       .codepoints()
       .map(str.to-unicode))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/q50tz6WAJPnwtBCYWbHrIwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` character `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The character that should be converted.

###  ` from-unicode `

Converts a unicode code point into its corresponding string.

str  .  from-unicode  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

    
    
    #str.from-unicode(97)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/vNzcsGO4Zd_u-P4qNnxrDQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The code point that should be converted.

###  ` contains `

Whether the string contains the specified pattern.

This method also has dedicated syntax: You can write ` "bc"  in  "abcd"  `
instead of ` "abcd"  .  contains  (  "bc"  )  ` .

self  .  contains  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to search for.

###  ` starts-with `

Whether the string starts with the specified pattern.

self  .  starts-with  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern the string might start with.

###  ` ends-with `

Whether the string ends with the specified pattern.

self  .  ends-with  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern the string might end with.

###  ` find `

Searches for the specified pattern in the string and returns the first match
as a string or ` none  ` if there is no match.

self  .  find  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to search for.

###  ` position `

Searches for the specified pattern in the string and returns the index of the
first match as an integer or ` none  ` if there is no match.

self  .  position  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to search for.

###  ` match `

Searches for the specified pattern in the string and returns a dictionary with
details about the first match or ` none  ` if there is no match.

The returned dictionary has the following keys:

  * ` start ` : The start offset of the match 
  * ` end ` : The end offset of the match 
  * ` text ` : The text that matched. 
  * ` captures ` : An array containing a string for each matched capturing group. The first item of the array contains the first matched capturing, not the whole match! This is empty unless the ` pattern ` was a regex with capturing groups. 

self  .  match  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to search for.

###  ` matches `

Searches for the specified pattern in the string and returns an array of
dictionaries with details about all matches. For details about the returned
dictionaries, see above.

self  .  matches  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to search for.

###  ` replace `

Replace at most ` count ` occurrences of the given pattern with a replacement
string or function (beginning from the start). If no count is given, all
occurrences are replaced.

self  .  replace  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) ,  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  count  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` pattern `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to search for.

####  ` replacement `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The string to replace the matches with or a function that gets a dictionary
for each match and can return individual replacement strings.

####  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

If given, only the first ` count ` matches of the pattern are placed.

###  ` trim `

Removes matches of a pattern from one or both sides of the string, once or
repeatedly and returns the resulting string.

self  .  trim  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) ,  at  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  repeat  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

####  ` pattern `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to search for. If ` none  ` , trims white spaces.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` at `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Can be ` start ` or ` end ` to only trim the start or end of the string. If
omitted, both sides are trimmed.

####  ` repeat `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether to repeatedly removes matches of the pattern or just once. Defaults to
` true  ` .

Default: ` true  `

###  ` split `

Splits a string at matches of a specified pattern and returns an array of the
resulting parts.

self  .  split  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

####  ` pattern `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The pattern to split at. Defaults to whitespace.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` rev `

Reverse the string.

self  .  rev  (

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Selector  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Style  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/style/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/style.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Style ](/docs/reference/foundations/style/)

#  ` style `

Provides access to active styles.

**Deprecation planned.** Use [ context ](/docs/reference/context/ "context")
instead.

    
    
    #let thing(body) = style(styles => {
      let size = measure(body, styles)
      [Width of "#body" is #size.width]
    })
    
    #thing[Hey] \
    #thing[Welcome]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/B9BBPtfgbYihKwTWFPTllQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

style  (

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` func `

[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

A function to call with the styles. Its return value is displayed in the
document.

This function is called once for each time the content returned by ` style `
appears in the document. That makes it possible to generate content that
depends on the style context it appears in.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) String  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
System  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/sys/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/none.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ None ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/)

#  none

A value that indicates the absence of any other value.

The none type has exactly one value: ` none  ` .

When inserted into the document, it is not visible. This is also the value
that is produced by empty code blocks. It can be [ joined
](/docs/reference/scripting/#blocks) with any value, yielding the other value.

##  Example

    
    
    Not visible: #none
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bWChCwjCUgpluIjZfBh2dgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Module  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/module/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Panic  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/panic/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/decimal.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Decimal ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

#  decimal

A fixed-point decimal number type.

This type should be used for precise arithmetic operations on numbers
represented in base 10. A typical use case is representing currency.

##  Example

    
    
    Decimal: #(decimal("0.1") + decimal("0.2")) \
    Float: #(0.1 + 0.2)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/W31Kvh6BvfIgTgIeq2uIEQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Construction and casts

To create a decimal number, use the ` decimal  (  string  )  ` constructor,
such as in ` decimal  (  "3.141592653"  )  ` **(note the double quotes!)** .
This constructor preserves all given fractional digits, provided they are
representable as per the limits specified below (otherwise, an error is
raised).

You can also convert any [ integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) to a
decimal with the ` decimal  (  int  )  ` constructor, e.g. ` decimal  (  59  )
` . However, note that constructing a decimal from a [ floating-point number
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) , while supported, **is an imprecise
conversion and therefore discouraged.** A warning will be raised if Typst
detects that there was an accidental ` float ` to ` decimal ` cast through its
constructor, e.g. if writing ` decimal  (  3.14  )  ` (note the lack of double
quotes, indicating this is an accidental ` float ` cast and therefore
imprecise). It is recommended to use strings for constant decimal values
instead (e.g. ` decimal  (  "3.14"  )  ` ).

The precision of a ` float ` to ` decimal ` cast can be slightly improved by
rounding the result to 15 digits with [ ` calc.round `
](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-round) , but there are still no
precision guarantees for that kind of conversion.

##  Operations

Basic arithmetic operations are supported on two decimals and on pairs of
decimals and integers.

Built-in operations between ` float ` and ` decimal ` are not supported in
order to guard against accidental loss of precision. They will raise an error
instead.

Certain ` calc ` functions, such as trigonometric functions and power between
two real numbers, are also only supported for ` float ` (although raising `
decimal ` to integer exponents is supported). You can opt into potentially
imprecise operations with the ` float  (  decimal  )  ` constructor, which
casts the ` decimal ` number into a ` float ` , allowing for operations
without precision guarantees.

##  Displaying decimals

To display a decimal, simply insert the value into the document. To only
display a certain number of digits, [ round
](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-round) the decimal first.
Localized formatting of decimals and other numbers is not yet supported, but
planned for the future.

You can convert decimals to strings using the [ ` str `
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/ "`str`") constructor. This way, you can
post-process the displayed representation, e.g. to replace the period with a
comma (as a stand-in for proper built-in localization to languages that use
the comma).

##  Precision and limits

A ` decimal ` number has a limit of 28 to 29 significant base-10 digits. This
includes the sum of digits before and after the decimal point. As such,
numbers with more fractional digits have a smaller range. The maximum and
minimum ` decimal ` numbers have a value of ` 79228162514264337593543950335  `
and ` -  79228162514264337593543950335  ` respectively. In contrast with [ `
float ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/ "`float`") , this type does not
support infinity or NaN, so overflowing or underflowing operations will raise
an error.

Typical operations between ` decimal ` numbers, such as addition,
multiplication, and [ power ](/docs/reference/foundations/calc/#functions-pow)
to an integer, will be highly precise due to their fixed-point representation.
Note, however, that multiplication and division may not preserve all digits in
some edge cases: while they are considered precise, digits past the limits
specified above are rounded off and lost, so some loss of precision beyond the
maximum representable digits is possible. Note that this behavior can be
observed not only when dividing, but also when multiplying by numbers between
0 and 1, as both operations can push a number's fractional digits beyond the
limits described above, leading to rounding. When those two operations do not
surpass the digit limits, they are fully precise.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to a ` decimal ` .

It is recommended to use a string to construct the decimal number, or an [
integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) (if desired). The string must
contain a number in the format ` "3.14159"  ` (or ` "-3.141519"  ` for
negative numbers). The fractional digits are fully preserved; if that's not
possible due to the limit of significant digits (around 28 to 29) having been
reached, an error is raised as the given decimal number wouldn't be
representable.

While this constructor can be used with [ floating-point numbers
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) to cast them to ` decimal ` , doing so
is **discouraged** as **this cast is inherently imprecise.** It is easy to
accidentally perform this cast by writing ` decimal  (  1.234  )  ` (note the
lack of double quotes), which is why Typst will emit a warning in that case.
Please write ` decimal  (  "1.234"  )  ` instead for that particular case
(initialization of a constant decimal). Also note that floats that are NaN or
infinite cannot be cast to decimals and will raise an error.

decimal  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ decimal ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

    
    
    #decimal("1.222222222222222")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/RfqlB85Q5lIVeebJq7RlmgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to a decimal.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Datetime  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Dictionary  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/type.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Type ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/)

#  type

Describes a kind of value.

To style your document, you need to work with values of different kinds:
Lengths specifying the size of your elements, colors for your text and shapes,
and more. Typst categorizes these into clearly defined _types_ and tells you
where it expects which type of value.

Apart from basic types for numeric values and [ typical
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ types
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ known
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ from
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ programming
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) languages, Typst provides a special
type for [ _content._ ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) A value of this
type can hold anything that you can enter into your document: Text, elements
like headings and shapes, and style information.

##  Example

    
    
    #let x = 10
    #if type(x) == int [
      #x is an integer!
    ] else [
      #x is another value...
    ]
    
    An image is of type
    #type(image("glacier.jpg")).
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dTjHaEMO5150e0-XVg1OzwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The type of ` 10 ` is ` int ` . Now, what is the type of ` int ` or even `
type ` ?

    
    
    #type(int) \
    #type(type)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HqIgZy_wqBbnboRlZ-Iv4AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Compatibility

In Typst 0.7 and lower, the ` type ` function returned a string instead of a
type. Compatibility with the old way will remain for a while to give package
authors time to upgrade, but it will be removed at some point.

  * Checks like ` int  ==  "integer"  ` evaluate to ` true  `
  * Adding/joining a type and string will yield a string 
  * The ` in ` operator on a type and a dictionary will evaluate to ` true  ` if the dictionary has a string key matching the type's name 

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Determines a value's type.

type  (

any

)  -> [ type ](/docs/reference/foundations/type/)

    
    
    #type(12) \
    #type(14.7) \
    #type("hello") \
    #type(<glacier>) \
    #type([Hi]) \
    #type(x => x + 1) \
    #type(type)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/A7_wGHgPK0Jhrp3CDC6IegAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value whose type's to determine.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) System  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/sys/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Version  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/version/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/assert.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Assert ](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/)

#  ` assert `

Ensures that a condition is fulfilled.

Fails with an error if the condition is not fulfilled. Does not produce any
output in the document.

If you wish to test equality between two values, see [ ` assert.eq `
](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/#definitions-eq) and [ ` assert.ne `
](/docs/reference/foundations/assert/#definitions-ne) .

##  Example

    
    
    #assert(1 < 2, message: "math broke")
    

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

assert  (

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  message  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)

###  ` condition `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The condition that must be true for the assertion to pass.

###  ` message `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The error message when the assertion fails.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` eq `

Ensures that two values are equal.

Fails with an error if the first value is not equal to the second. Does not
produce any output in the document.

assert  .  eq  (

any  ,  any  ,  message  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #assert.eq(10, 10)
    

####  ` left `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The first value to compare.

####  ` right `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The second value to compare.

####  ` message `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

An optional message to display on error instead of the representations of the
compared values.

###  ` ne `

Ensures that two values are not equal.

Fails with an error if the first value is equal to the second. Does not
produce any output in the document.

assert  .  ne  (

any  ,  any  ,  message  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #assert.ne(3, 4)
    

####  ` left `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The first value to compare.

####  ` right `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The second value to compare.

####  ` message `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

An optional message to display on error instead of the representations of the
compared values.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Array  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Auto  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/bool.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Boolean ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

#  bool

A type with two states.

The boolean type has two values: ` true  ` and ` false  ` . It denotes whether
something is active or enabled.

##  Example

    
    
    #false \
    #true \
    #(1 < 2)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kY06WRyR--IwV2unWZl-NwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Auto  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Bytes  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/panic.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Panic ](/docs/reference/foundations/panic/)

#  ` panic `

Fails with an error.

Arguments are displayed to the user (not rendered in the document) as strings,
converting with ` repr ` if necessary.

##  Example

The code below produces the error ` panicked with: "this is wrong" ` .

    
    
    #panic("this is wrong")
    

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

panic  (

..  any

)

###  ` values `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The values to panic with and display to the user.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) None  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Plugin  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/plugin/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/arguments.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Arguments ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/)

#  arguments

Captured arguments to a function.

##  Argument Sinks

Like built-in functions, custom functions can also take a variable number of
arguments. You can specify an _argument sink_ which collects all excess
arguments as ` ..sink ` . The resulting ` sink ` value is of the ` arguments `
type. It exposes methods to access the positional and named arguments.

    
    
    #let format(title, ..authors) = {
      let by = authors
        .pos()
        .join(", ", last: " and ")
    
      [*#title* \ _Written by #by;_]
    }
    
    #format("ArtosFlow", "Jane", "Joe")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/DWzn69gGuCd1q_LVZvjEEgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Spreading

Inversely to an argument sink, you can _spread_ arguments, arrays and
dictionaries into a function call with the ` ..spread ` operator:

    
    
    #let array = (2, 3, 5)
    #calc.min(..array)
    #let dict = (fill: blue)
    #text(..dict)[Hello]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/kcmqtH9qxq6Bg8ZwwKnMCQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Construct spreadable arguments in place.

This function behaves like ` let  args  (  ..  sink  )  =  sink ` .

arguments  (

..  any

)  -> [ arguments ](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/)

    
    
    #let args = arguments(stroke: red, inset: 1em, [Body])
    #box(..args)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JbzK099-rqq0pkW-oHCQsgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` arguments `

any

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The arguments to construct.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` at `

Returns the positional argument at the specified index, or the named argument
with the specified name.

If the key is an [ integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) , this is
equivalent to first calling [ ` pos `
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#definitions-pos) and then [ `
array.at ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/#definitions-at "`array.at`") .
If it is a [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) , this is equivalent
to first calling [ ` named `
](/docs/reference/foundations/arguments/#definitions-named) and then [ `
dictionary.at ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/#definitions-at
"`dictionary.at`") .

self  .  at  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  default  :  any  ,

)  -> any

####  ` key `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The index or name of the argument to get.

####  ` default `

any

A default value to return if the key is invalid.

###  ` pos `

Returns the captured positional arguments as an array.

self  .  pos  (

)  -> [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

###  ` named `

Returns the captured named arguments as a dictionary.

self  .  named  (

)  -> [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Foundations  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Array  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/float.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

#  float

A floating-point number.

A limited-precision representation of a real number. Typst uses 64 bits to
store floats. Wherever a float is expected, you can also pass an [ integer
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) .

You can convert a value to a float with this type's constructor.

NaN and positive infinity are available as ` float  .  nan ` and ` float  .
inf ` respectively.

##  Example

    
    
    #3.14 \
    #1e4 \
    #(10 / 4)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Oh7PyPKhSHHcwVH4CSb0KwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Converts a value to a float.

  * Booleans are converted to ` 0.0 ` or ` 1.0 ` . 
  * Integers are converted to the closest 64-bit float. For integers with absolute value less than ` calc  .  pow  (  2  ,  53  )  ` , this conversion is exact. 
  * Ratios are divided by 100%. 
  * Strings are parsed in base 10 to the closest 64-bit float. Exponential notation is supported. 

float  (

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)
[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ decimal
](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #float(false) \
    #float(true) \
    #float(4) \
    #float(40%) \
    #float("2.7") \
    #float("1e5")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PMa-HqZaL4--FN_1I0OHagAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` value `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ float
](/docs/reference/foundations/float/) or  [ ratio
](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) or  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
or  [ decimal ](/docs/reference/foundations/decimal/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The value that should be converted to a float.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` is-nan `

Checks if a float is not a number.

In IEEE 754, more than one bit pattern represents a NaN. This function returns
` true ` if the float is any of those bit patterns.

self  .  is-nan  (

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

    
    
    #float.is-nan(0) \
    #float.is-nan(1) \
    #float.is-nan(float.nan)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9jd8hxPcunH7CdCSXWd1dwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` is-infinite `

Checks if a float is infinite.

Floats can represent positive infinity and negative infinity. This function
returns ` true  ` if the float is an infinity.

self  .  is-infinite  (

)  -> [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

    
    
    #float.is-infinite(0) \
    #float.is-infinite(1) \
    #float.is-infinite(float.inf)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/AIoKhvpoq-xeueiSPD9O7gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` signum `

Calculates the sign of a floating point number.

  * If the number is positive (including ` +  0.0  ` ), returns ` 1.0  ` . 
  * If the number is negative (including ` -  0.0  ` ), returns ` -  1.0  ` . 
  * If the number is NaN, returns ` float  .  nan ` . 

self  .  signum  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #(5.0).signum() \
    #(-5.0).signum() \
    #(0.0).signum() \
    #float.nan.signum()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HHp-pldXJoLbqAEsg_2mmQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` from-bytes `

Converts bytes to a float.

float  .  from-bytes  (

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/) ,  endian  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

    
    
    #float.from-bytes(bytes((0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 240, 63))) \
    #float.from-bytes(bytes((63, 240, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0)), endian: "big")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/TbCinqru71JKOm73kOJYdwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` bytes `

[ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The bytes that should be converted to a float.

Must be of length exactly 8 so that the result fits into a 64-bit float.

####  ` endian `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The endianness of the conversion.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  big  " ` |  Big-endian byte order: The highest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
` "  little  " ` |  Little-endian byte order: The lowest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
  
Default: ` "little"  `

###  ` to-bytes `

Converts a float to bytes.

self  .  to-bytes  (

endian  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

)  -> [ bytes ](/docs/reference/foundations/bytes/)

    
    
    #array(1.0.to-bytes(endian: "big")) \
    #array(1.0.to-bytes())
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/oyz50tHIOoQRj_5WM6JIbAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` endian `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

The endianness of the conversion.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  big  " ` |  Big-endian byte order: The highest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
` "  little  " ` |  Little-endian byte order: The lowest-value byte is at the beginning of the bytes.   
  
Default: ` "little"  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Evaluate  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/eval/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Function  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/duration.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Duration ](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/)

#  duration

Represents a positive or negative span of time.

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Creates a new duration.

You can specify the [ duration ](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/
"duration") using weeks, days, hours, minutes and seconds. You can also get a
duration by subtracting two [ datetimes
](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/) .

duration  (

seconds  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  minutes  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  hours  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  days  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  weeks  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ duration ](/docs/reference/foundations/duration/)

    
    
    #duration(
      days: 3,
      hours: 12,
    ).hours()
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/GmG9JKsQZEqcWXCc52iIiQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` seconds `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of seconds.

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` minutes `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of minutes.

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` hours `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of hours.

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` days `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of days.

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` weeks `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

The number of weeks.

Default: ` 0  `

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` seconds `

The duration expressed in seconds.

This function returns the total duration represented in seconds as a floating-
point number rather than the second component of the duration.

self  .  seconds  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` minutes `

The duration expressed in minutes.

This function returns the total duration represented in minutes as a floating-
point number rather than the second component of the duration.

self  .  minutes  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` hours `

The duration expressed in hours.

This function returns the total duration represented in hours as a floating-
point number rather than the second component of the duration.

self  .  hours  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` days `

The duration expressed in days.

This function returns the total duration represented in days as a floating-
point number rather than the second component of the duration.

self  .  days  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

###  ` weeks `

The duration expressed in weeks.

This function returns the total duration represented in weeks as a floating-
point number rather than the second component of the duration.

self  .  weeks  (

)  -> [ float ](/docs/reference/foundations/float/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Dictionary  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Evaluate  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/eval/)



# **docs/reference/foundations/selector.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Foundations ](/docs/reference/foundations/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)

#  selector

A filter for selecting elements within the document.

You can construct a selector in the following ways:

  * you can use an element [ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/ "function")
  * you can filter for an element function with [ specific fields ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#definitions-where)
  * you can use a [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or [ regular expression ](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/)
  * you can use a [ ` <label> ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)
  * you can use a [ ` location ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/ "`location`")
  * call the [ ` selector ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/ "`selector`") constructor to convert any of the above types into a selector value and use the methods below to refine it 

Selectors are used to [ apply styling rules ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-
rules) to elements. You can also use selectors to [ query
](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "query") the document for certain types
of elements.

Furthermore, you can pass a selector to several of Typst's built-in functions
to configure their behaviour. One such example is the [ outline
](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "outline") where it can be used to change
which elements are listed within the outline.

Multiple selectors can be combined using the methods shown below. However, not
all kinds of selectors are supported in all places, at the moment.

##  Example

    
    
    #context query(
      heading.where(level: 1)
        .or(heading.where(level: 2))
    )
    
    = This will be found
    == So will this
    === But this will not.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/SW-2iLP1LIGQ0ITsB7LGEQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Turns a value into a selector. The following values are accepted:

  * An element function like a ` heading ` or ` figure ` . 
  * A ` <label> ` . 
  * A more complex selector like ` heading  .  where  (  level  :  1  )  ` . 

selector  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)

####  ` target `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) or  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Can be an element function like a ` heading ` or ` figure ` , a ` <label> ` or
a more complex selector like ` heading  .  where  (  level  :  1  )  ` .

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` or `

Selects all elements that match this or any of the other selectors.

self  .  or  (

..  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)

####  ` others `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) or  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The other selectors to match on.

###  ` and `

Selects all elements that match this and all of the other selectors.

self  .  and  (

..  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

)  -> [ selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)

####  ` others `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ regex
](/docs/reference/foundations/regex/) or  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The other selectors to match on.

###  ` before `

Returns a modified selector that will only match elements that occur before
the first match of ` end ` .

self  .  before  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  inclusive  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)

####  ` end `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The original selection will end at the first match of ` end ` .

####  ` inclusive `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether ` end ` itself should match or not. This is only relevant if both
selectors match the same type of element. Defaults to ` true  ` .

Default: ` true  `

###  ` after `

Returns a modified selector that will only match elements that occur after the
first match of ` start ` .

self  .  after  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  inclusive  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ selector ](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/)

####  ` start `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The original selection will start at the first match of ` start ` .

####  ` inclusive `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Whether ` start ` itself should match or not. This is only relevant if both
selectors match the same type of element. Defaults to ` true  ` .

Default: ` true  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Representation  Previous page
](/docs/reference/foundations/repr/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) String  Next page  ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)



# **docs/reference/model/document.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Document ](/docs/reference/model/document/)

#  ` document ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

The root element of a document and its metadata.

All documents are automatically wrapped in a ` document ` element. You cannot
create a document element yourself. This function is only used with [ set
rules ](/docs/reference/styling/#set-rules) to specify document metadata. Such
a set rule must not occur inside of any layout container.

    
    
    #set document(title: [Hello])
    
    This has no visible output, but
    embeds metadata into the PDF!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/g-R4wkXOtFnr5QmDRHynVAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Note that metadata set with this function is not rendered within the document.
Instead, it is embedded in the compiled PDF file.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

document  (

title  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  author  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  keywords  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  date  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ datetime
](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` title `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The document's title. This is often rendered as the title of the PDF viewer
window.

While this can be arbitrary content, PDF viewers only support plain text
titles, so the conversion might be lossy.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` author `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The document's authors.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` keywords `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The document's keywords.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` date `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ datetime
](/docs/reference/foundations/datetime/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The document's creation date.

If this is ` auto  ` (default), Typst uses the current date and time. Setting
it to ` none  ` prevents Typst from embedding any creation date into the PDF
metadata.

The year component must be at least zero in order to be embedded into a PDF.

If you want to create byte-by-byte reproducible PDFs, set this to something
other than ` auto  ` .

Default: ` auto  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Cite  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/cite/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Emphasis  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/emph/)



# **docs/reference/model/ref.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/model/ref/)

#  ` ref ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A reference to a label or bibliography.

Produces a textual reference to a label. For example, a reference to a heading
will yield an appropriate string such as "Section 1" for a reference to the
first heading. The references are also links to the respective element.
Reference syntax can also be used to [ cite ](/docs/reference/model/cite/
"cite") from a bibliography.

Referenceable elements include [ headings ](/docs/reference/model/heading/) ,
[ figures ](/docs/reference/model/figure/) , [ equations
](/docs/reference/math/equation/) , and [ footnotes
](/docs/reference/model/footnote/) . To create a custom referenceable element
like a theorem, you can create a figure of a custom [ ` kind `
](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-kind) and write a show rule for it.
In the future, there might be a more direct way to define a custom
referenceable element.

If you just want to link to a labelled element and not get an automatic
textual reference, consider using the [ ` link ` ](/docs/reference/model/link/
"`link`") function instead.

##  Example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    #set math.equation(numbering: "(1)")
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    Recent developments in
    typesetting software have
    rekindled hope in previously
    frustrated researchers. @distress
    As shown in @results, we ...
    
    = Results <results>
    We discuss our approach in
    comparison with others.
    
    == Performance <perf>
    @slow demonstrates what slow
    software looks like.
    $ T(n) = O(2^n) $ <slow>
    
    #bibliography("works.bib")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bzf3klNJ674BqVarCEGU8wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: A reference to a label can be created
by typing an ` @ ` followed by the name of the label (e.g. ` = Introduction
<intro> ` can be referenced by typing ` @intro  ` ).

To customize the supplement, add content in square brackets after the
reference: ` @intro  [  Chapter  ]  ` .

##  Customization

If you write a show rule for references, you can access the referenced element
through the ` element ` field of the reference. The ` element ` may be ` none
` even if it exists if Typst hasn't discovered it yet, so you always need to
handle that case in your code.

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    #set math.equation(numbering: "(1)")
    
    #show ref: it => {
      let eq = math.equation
      let el = it.element
      if el != none and el.func() == eq {
        // Override equation references.
        link(el.location(),numbering(
          el.numbering,
          ..counter(eq).at(el.location())
        ))
      } else {
        // Other references as usual.
        it
      }
    }
    
    = Beginnings <beginning>
    In @beginning we prove @pythagoras.
    $ a^2 + b^2 = c^2 $ <pythagoras>
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_2kRnAjhpZZ-kvJsytflygAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

ref  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) ,  supplement  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` target `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The target label that should be referenced.

Can be a label that is defined in the document or an entry from the [ `
bibliography ` ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/ "`bibliography`") .

###  ` supplement `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A supplement for the reference.

For references to headings or figures, this is added before the referenced
number. For citations, this can be used to add a page number.

If a function is specified, it is passed the referenced element and should
return content.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    #set ref(supplement: it => {
      if it.func() == heading {
        "Chapter"
      } else {
        "Thing"
      }
    })
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    In @intro, we see how to turn
    Sections into Chapters. And
    in @intro[Part], it is done
    manually.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/fh477CUxS1KmPvq1dqsQ5QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Quote  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/quote/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Strong Emphasis  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/strong/)



# **docs/reference/model/bibliography.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Bibliography ](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/)

#  ` bibliography ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A bibliography / reference listing.

You can create a new bibliography by calling this function with a path to a
bibliography file in either one of two formats:

  * A Hayagriva ` .yml ` file. Hayagriva is a new bibliography file format designed for use with Typst. Visit its [ documentation ](https://github.com/typst/hayagriva/blob/main/docs/file-format.md) for more details. 
  * A BibLaTeX ` .bib ` file. 

As soon as you add a bibliography somewhere in your document, you can start
citing things with reference syntax ( ` @key  ` ) or explicit calls to the [
citation ](/docs/reference/model/cite/) function ( ` #  cite  (  <key> )  ` ).
The bibliography will only show entries for works that were referenced in the
document.

##  Styles

Typst offers a wide selection of built-in [ citation and bibliography styles
](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/#parameters-style) . Beyond those, you
can add and use custom [ CSL ](https://citationstyles.org/) (Citation Style
Language) files. Wondering which style to use? Here are some good defaults
based on what discipline you're working in:

Fields  |  Typical Styles   
---|---  
Engineering, IT  |  ` "ieee"  `  
Psychology, Life Sciences  |  ` "apa"  `  
Social sciences  |  ` "chicago-author-date"  `  
Humanities  |  ` "mla"  ` , ` "chicago-notes"  ` , ` "harvard-cite-them-right"  `  
Economics  |  ` "harvard-cite-them-right"  `  
Physics  |  ` "american-physics-society"  `  
  
##  Example

    
    
    This was already noted by
    pirates long ago. @arrgh
    
    Multiple sources say ...
    @arrgh @netwok.
    
    #bibliography("works.bib")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IJ3xnmEzh6yEddeM44ev3wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

bibliography  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  title  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  full  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  style  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` path `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Path(s) to Hayagriva ` .yml ` and/or BibLaTeX ` .bib ` files.

###  ` title `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The title of the bibliography.

  * When set to ` auto  ` , an appropriate title for the [ text language ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) will be used. This is the default. 
  * When set to ` none  ` , the bibliography will not have a title. 
  * A custom title can be set by passing content. 

The bibliography's heading will not be numbered by default, but you can force
it to be with a show-set rule: ` show  bibliography  :  set  heading  (
numbering  :  "1."  )  `

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` full `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to include all works from the given bibliography files, even those
that weren't cited in the document.

To selectively add individual cited works without showing them, you can also
use the ` cite ` function with [ ` form `
](/docs/reference/model/cite/#parameters-form) set to ` none  ` .

Default: ` false  `

###  ` style `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The bibliography style.

Should be either one of the built-in styles (see below) or a path to a [ CSL
file ](https://citationstyles.org/) . Some of the styles listed below appear
twice, once with their full name and once with a short alias.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View options

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  alphanumeric  " ` |  Alphanumeric   
` "  american-anthropological-association  " ` |  American Anthropological Association   
` "  american-chemical-society  " ` |  American Chemical Society   
` "  american-geophysical-union  " ` |  American Geophysical Union   
` "  american-institute-of-aeronautics-and-astronautics  " ` |  American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics   
` "  american-institute-of-physics  " ` |  American Institute of Physics 4th edition   
` "  american-medical-association  " ` |  American Medical Association 11th edition   
` "  american-meteorological-society  " ` |  American Meteorological Society   
` "  american-physics-society  " ` |  American Physical Society   
` "  american-physiological-society  " ` |  American Physiological Society   
` "  american-political-science-association  " ` |  American Political Science Association   
` "  american-psychological-association  " ` |  American Psychological Association 7th edition   
` "  american-society-for-microbiology  " ` |  American Society for Microbiology   
` "  american-society-of-civil-engineers  " ` |  American Society of Civil Engineers   
` "  american-society-of-mechanical-engineers  " ` |  American Society of Mechanical Engineers   
` "  american-sociological-association  " ` |  American Sociological Association 6th/7th edition   
` "  angewandte-chemie  " ` |  Angewandte Chemie International Edition   
` "  annual-reviews  " ` |  Annual Reviews (sorted by order of appearance)   
` "  annual-reviews-author-date  " ` |  Annual Reviews (author-date)   
` "  associacao-brasileira-de-normas-tecnicas  " ` |  AssociaÃ§Ã£o Brasileira de Normas TÃ©cnicas (PortuguÃªs - Brasil)   
` "  association-for-computing-machinery  " ` |  Association for Computing Machinery   
` "  biomed-central  " ` |  BioMed Central   
` "  bristol-university-press  " ` |  Bristol University Press   
` "  british-medical-journal  " ` |  BMJ   
` "  cell  " ` |  Cell   
` "  chicago-author-date  " ` |  Chicago Manual of Style 17th edition (author-date)   
` "  chicago-fullnotes  " ` |  Chicago Manual of Style 17th edition (full note)   
` "  chicago-notes  " ` |  Chicago Manual of Style 17th edition (note)   
` "  copernicus  " ` |  Copernicus Publications   
` "  council-of-science-editors  " ` |  Council of Science Editors, Citation-Sequence (numeric, brackets)   
` "  council-of-science-editors-author-date  " ` |  Council of Science Editors, Name-Year (author-date)   
` "  current-opinion  " ` |  Current Opinion journals   
` "  deutsche-gesellschaft-fÃ¼r-psychologie  " ` |  Deutsche Gesellschaft fÃ¼r Psychologie 5. Auflage (Deutsch)   
` "  deutsche-sprache  " ` |  Deutsche Sprache (Deutsch)   
` "  elsevier-harvard  " ` |  Elsevier - Harvard (with titles)   
` "  elsevier-vancouver  " ` |  Elsevier - Vancouver   
` "  elsevier-with-titles  " ` |  Elsevier (numeric, with titles)   
` "  frontiers  " ` |  Frontiers journals   
` "  future-medicine  " ` |  Future Medicine journals   
` "  future-science  " ` |  Future Science Group   
` "  gb-7714-2005-numeric  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2005 (numeric, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gb-7714-2015-author-date  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2015 (author-date, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gb-7714-2015-note  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2015 (note, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gb-7714-2015-numeric  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2015 (numeric, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gost-r-705-2008-numeric  " ` |  Russian GOST R 7.0.5-2008 (numeric)   
` "  harvard-cite-them-right  " ` |  Cite Them Right 12th edition - Harvard   
` "  institute-of-electrical-and-electronics-engineers  " ` |  IEEE   
` "  institute-of-physics-numeric  " ` |  Institute of Physics (numeric)   
` "  iso-690-author-date  " ` |  ISO-690 (author-date, English)   
` "  iso-690-numeric  " ` |  ISO-690 (numeric, English)   
` "  karger  " ` |  Karger journals   
` "  mary-ann-liebert-vancouver  " ` |  Mary Ann Liebert - Vancouver   
` "  modern-humanities-research-association  " ` |  Modern Humanities Research Association 4th edition (note with bibliography)   
` "  modern-language-association  " ` |  Modern Language Association 9th edition   
` "  modern-language-association-8  " ` |  Modern Language Association 8th edition   
` "  multidisciplinary-digital-publishing-institute  " ` |  Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute   
` "  nature  " ` |  Nature   
` "  pensoft  " ` |  Pensoft Journals   
` "  public-library-of-science  " ` |  Public Library of Science   
` "  royal-society-of-chemistry  " ` |  Royal Society of Chemistry   
` "  sage-vancouver  " ` |  SAGE - Vancouver   
` "  sist02  " ` |  SIST02 (æ¥æ¬èª)   
` "  spie  " ` |  SPIE journals   
` "  springer-basic  " ` |  Springer - Basic (numeric, brackets)   
` "  springer-basic-author-date  " ` |  Springer - Basic (author-date)   
` "  springer-fachzeitschriften-medizin-psychologie  " ` |  Springer - Fachzeitschriften Medizin Psychologie (Deutsch)   
` "  springer-humanities-author-date  " ` |  Springer - Humanities (author-date)   
` "  springer-lecture-notes-in-computer-science  " ` |  Springer - Lecture Notes in Computer Science   
` "  springer-mathphys  " ` |  Springer - MathPhys (numeric, brackets)   
` "  springer-socpsych-author-date  " ` |  Springer - SocPsych (author-date)   
` "  springer-vancouver  " ` |  Springer - Vancouver (brackets)   
` "  taylor-and-francis-chicago-author-date  " ` |  Taylor & Francis - Chicago Manual of Style (author-date)   
` "  taylor-and-francis-national-library-of-medicine  " ` |  Taylor & Francis - National Library of Medicine   
` "  the-institution-of-engineering-and-technology  " ` |  The Institution of Engineering and Technology   
` "  the-lancet  " ` |  The Lancet   
` "  thieme  " ` |  Thieme-German (Deutsch)   
` "  trends  " ` |  Trends journals   
` "  turabian-author-date  " ` |  Turabian 9th edition (author-date)   
` "  turabian-fullnote-8  " ` |  Turabian 8th edition (full note)   
` "  vancouver  " ` |  Vancouver   
` "  vancouver-superscript  " ` |  Vancouver (superscript)   
  
Default: ` "ieee"  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Model  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Bullet
List  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/list/)



# **docs/reference/model/heading.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Heading ](/docs/reference/model/heading/)

#  ` heading ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A section heading.

With headings, you can structure your document into sections. Each heading has
a _level,_ which starts at one and is unbounded upwards. This level indicates
the logical role of the following content (section, subsection, etc.) A top-
level heading indicates a top-level section of the document (not the
document's title).

Typst can automatically number your headings for you. To enable numbering,
specify how you want your headings to be numbered with a [ numbering pattern
or function ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) .

Independently of the numbering, Typst can also automatically generate an [
outline ](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "outline") of all headings for you.
To exclude one or more headings from this outline, you can set the ` outlined
` parameter to ` false  ` .

##  Example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.a)")
    
    = Introduction
    In recent years, ...
    
    == Preliminaries
    To start, ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PajtbDMMN2eDYZCkAh9ZJwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

Headings have dedicated syntax: They can be created by starting a line with
one or multiple equals signs, followed by a space. The number of equals signs
determines the heading's logical nesting depth. The ` offset ` field can be
set to configure the starting depth.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

heading  (

level  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  depth  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  offset  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  numbering  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  supplement  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  outlined  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  bookmarked  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  hanging-indent  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` level `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The absolute nesting depth of the heading, starting from one. If set to ` auto
` , it is computed from ` offset  +  depth ` .

This is primarily useful for usage in [ show rules
](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) (either with [ ` where `
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#definitions-where) selectors or by
accessing the level directly on a shown heading).

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #show heading.where(level: 2): set text(red)
    
    = Level 1
    == Level 2
    
    #set heading(offset: 1)
    = Also level 2
    == Level 3
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_pDm-P05bg_jGbl9uvGjlAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` depth `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The relative nesting depth of the heading, starting from one. This is combined
with ` offset ` to compute the actual ` level ` .

This is set by the heading syntax, such that ` == Heading  ` creates a heading
with logical depth of 2, but actual level ` offset  +  2  ` . If you construct
a heading manually, you should typically prefer this over setting the absolute
level.

Default: ` 1  `

###  ` offset `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The starting offset of each heading's ` level ` , used to turn its relative `
depth ` into its absolute ` level ` .

Default: ` 0  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    = Level 1
    
    #set heading(offset: 1, numbering: "1.1")
    = Level 2
    
    #heading(offset: 2, depth: 2)[
      I'm level 4
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hKtWik5-HwMMejqOwDVKLAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` numbering `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to number the heading. Accepts a [ numbering pattern or function
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) .

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.a.")
    
    = A section
    == A subsection
    === A sub-subsection
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dtIXlP8zFF4SfNqscPeLbAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` supplement `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A supplement for the heading.

For references to headings, this is added before the referenced number.

If a function is specified, it is passed the referenced heading and should
return content.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.", supplement: [Chapter])
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    In @intro, we see how to turn
    Sections into Chapters. And
    in @intro[Part], it is done
    manually.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OZMUTnmWZCt9L0XUTDaRmQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` outlined `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the heading should appear in the [ outline
](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "outline") .

Note that this property, if set to ` true  ` , ensures the heading is also
shown as a bookmark in the exported PDF's outline (when exporting to PDF). To
change that behavior, use the ` bookmarked ` property.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #outline()
    
    #heading[Normal]
    This is a normal heading.
    
    #heading(outlined: false)[Hidden]
    This heading does not appear
    in the outline.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/q3R6803Mv9D8hpPx5wD4TgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` bookmarked `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the heading should appear as a bookmark in the exported PDF's outline.
Doesn't affect other export formats, such as PNG.

The default value of ` auto  ` indicates that the heading will only appear in
the exported PDF's outline if its ` outlined ` property is set to ` true  ` ,
that is, if it would also be listed in Typst's [ outline
](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "outline") . Setting this property to either
` true  ` (bookmark) or ` false  ` (don't bookmark) bypasses that behavior.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #heading[Normal heading]
    This heading will be shown in
    the PDF's bookmark outline.
    
    #heading(bookmarked: false)[Not bookmarked]
    This heading won't be
    bookmarked in the resulting
    PDF.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_UvMUDZOtTdH4i83Hac2iwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` hanging-indent `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indent all but the first line of a heading should have.

The default value of ` auto  ` indicates that the subsequent heading lines
will be indented based on the width of the numbering.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    #heading[A very, very, very, very, very, very long heading]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/35Dg34kG-7rg1-RFp8FaIgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The heading's title.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Footnote  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/footnote/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Link  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/link/)



# **docs/reference/model/numbering.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Numbering ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/)

#  ` numbering `

Applies a numbering to a sequence of numbers.

A numbering defines how a sequence of numbers should be displayed as content.
It is defined either through a pattern string or an arbitrary function.

A numbering pattern consists of counting symbols, for which the actual number
is substituted, their prefixes, and one suffix. The prefixes and the suffix
are repeated as-is.

##  Example

    
    
    #numbering("1.1)", 1, 2, 3) \
    #numbering("1.a.i", 1, 2) \
    #numbering("I â 1", 12, 2) \
    #numbering(
      (..nums) => nums
        .pos()
        .map(str)
        .join(".") + ")",
      1, 2, 3,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ViM4jxlRNjTCcZLHAqTQsQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Numbering patterns and numbering functions

There are multiple instances where you can provide a numbering pattern or
function in Typst. For example, when defining how to number [ headings
](/docs/reference/model/heading/) or [ figures
](/docs/reference/model/figure/) . Every time, the expected format is the same
as the one described below for the [ ` numbering `
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/#parameters-numbering) parameter.

The following example illustrates that a numbering function is just a regular
[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/ "function") that accepts
numbers and returns [ ` content ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/
"`content`") .

    
    
    #let unary(.., last) = "|" * last
    #set heading(numbering: unary)
    = First heading
    = Second heading
    = Third heading
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/y3Y2xT6PKYJ3nJF6y9bcPwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

numbering  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  ..  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> any

###  ` numbering `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Defines how the numbering works.

**Counting symbols** are ` 1 ` , ` a ` , ` A ` , ` i ` , ` I ` , ` ä¸ ` , `
å£¹ ` , ` ã ` , ` ã ` , ` ã¢ ` , ` ã¤ ` , ` × ` , ` ê° ` , ` ã± ` , `
* ` , ` â ` , and ` âµ ` . They are replaced by the number in the sequence,
preserving the original case.

The ` * ` character means that symbols should be used to count, in the order
of ` * ` , ` â ` , ` â¡ ` , ` Â§ ` , ` Â¶ ` , ` â ` . If there are more
than six items, the number is represented using repeated symbols.

**Suffixes** are all characters after the last counting symbol. They are
repeated as-is at the end of any rendered number.

**Prefixes** are all characters that are neither counting symbols nor
suffixes. They are repeated as-is at in front of their rendered equivalent of
their counting symbol.

This parameter can also be an arbitrary function that gets each number as an
individual argument. When given a function, the ` numbering ` function just
forwards the arguments to that function. While this is not particularly useful
in itself, it means that you can just give arbitrary numberings to the `
numbering ` function without caring whether they are defined as a pattern or
function.

###  ` numbers `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The numbers to apply the numbering to. Must be positive.

If ` numbering ` is a pattern and more numbers than counting symbols are
given, the last counting symbol with its prefix is repeated.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Numbered List  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/enum/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Outline  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/outline/)



# **docs/reference/model/strong.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Strong Emphasis ](/docs/reference/model/strong/)

#  ` strong ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Strongly emphasizes content by increasing the font weight.

Increases the current font weight by a given ` delta ` .

##  Example

    
    
    This is *strong.* \
    This is #strong[too.] \
    
    #show strong: set text(red)
    And this is *evermore.*
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8PFV4SUNXNbbYe9uHW1ITAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: To strongly emphasize content, simply
enclose it in stars/asterisks ( ` * ` ). Note that this only works at word
boundaries. To strongly emphasize part of a word, you have to use the
function.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

strong  (

delta  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` delta `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The delta to apply on the font weight.

Default: ` 300  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set strong(delta: 0)
    No *effect!*
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/SC7LmnRUxtrvxQL331fpfAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to strongly emphasize.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Reference  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/ref/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Table
Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/table/)



# **docs/reference/model/outline.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Outline ](/docs/reference/model/outline/)

#  ` outline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A table of contents, figures, or other elements.

This function generates a list of all occurrences of an element in the
document, up to a given depth. The element's numbering and page number will be
displayed in the outline alongside its title or caption. By default this
generates a table of contents.

##  Example

    
    
    #outline()
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(5)
    
    = Prior work
    #lorem(10)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/pxzEoLgfS9GjzIb6I2LlEgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Alternative outlines

By setting the ` target ` parameter, the outline can be used to generate a
list of other kinds of elements than headings. In the example below, we list
all figures containing images by setting ` target ` to ` figure  .  where  (
kind  :  image  )  ` . We could have also set it to just ` figure ` , but then
the list would also include figures containing tables or other material. For
more details on the ` where ` selector, [ see here
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#definitions-where) .

    
    
    #outline(
      title: [List of Figures],
      target: figure.where(kind: image),
    )
    
    #figure(
      image("tiger.jpg"),
      caption: [A nice figure!],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/K0Fgir_M6IbOnlxFTpRoyAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Styling the outline

The outline element has several options for customization, such as its ` title
` and ` indent ` parameters. If desired, however, it is possible to have more
control over the outline's look and style through the [ ` outline.entry `
](/docs/reference/model/outline/#definitions-entry) element.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

outline  (

title  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  target  :  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  depth  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  indent  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` title `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The title of the outline.

  * When set to ` auto  ` , an appropriate title for the [ text language ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) will be used. This is the default. 
  * When set to ` none  ` , the outline will not have a title. 
  * A custom title can be set by passing content. 

The outline's heading will not be numbered by default, but you can force it to
be with a show-set rule: ` show  outline  :  set  heading  (  numbering  :
"1."  )  `

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` target `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ selector
](/docs/reference/foundations/selector/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The type of element to include in the outline.

To list figures containing a specific kind of element, like a table, you can
write ` figure  .  where  (  kind  :  table  )  ` .

Default: ` heading  .  where  (  outlined  :  true  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #outline(
      title: [List of Tables],
      target: figure.where(kind: table),
    )
    
    #figure(
      table(
        columns: 4,
        [t], [1], [2], [3],
        [y], [0.3], [0.7], [0.5],
      ),
      caption: [Experiment results],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9oD_YO_3aaN85cAixeBP2gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` depth `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The maximum level up to which elements are included in the outline. When this
argument is ` none  ` , all elements are included.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    #outline(depth: 2)
    
    = Yes
    Top-level section.
    
    == Still
    Subsection.
    
    === Nope
    Not included.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/fYEfgTUmkbH0skbcMKeSFwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` indent `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to indent the outline's entries.

  * ` none  ` : No indent 
  * ` auto  ` : Indents the numbering of the nested entry with the title of its parent entry. This only has an effect if the entries are numbered (e.g., via [ heading numbering ](/docs/reference/model/heading/#parameters-numbering) ). 
  * [ Relative length ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) : Indents the item by this length multiplied by its nesting level. Specifying ` 2em  ` , for instance, would indent top-level headings (not nested) by ` 0em  ` , second level headings by ` 2em  ` (nested once), third-level headings by ` 4em  ` (nested twice) and so on. 
  * [ Function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) : You can completely customize this setting with a function. That function receives the nesting level as a parameter (starting at 0 for top-level headings/elements) and can return a relative length or content making up the indent. For example, ` n  => n  *  2em  ` would be equivalent to just specifying ` 2em  ` , while ` n  => [  â  ]  *  n ` would indent with one arrow per nesting level. 

_Migration hints:_ Specifying ` true  ` (equivalent to ` auto  ` ) or ` false
` (equivalent to ` none  ` ) for this option is deprecated and will be removed
in a future release.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.a.")
    
    #outline(
      title: [Contents (Automatic)],
      indent: auto,
    )
    
    #outline(
      title: [Contents (Length)],
      indent: 2em,
    )
    
    #outline(
      title: [Contents (Function)],
      indent: n => [â ] * n,
    )
    
    = About ACME Corp.
    == History
    === Origins
    #lorem(10)
    
    == Products
    #lorem(10)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VxzAmxCU1uGgVW2hebfhtwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Content to fill the space between the title and the page number. Can be set to
` none  ` to disable filling.

Default: ` repeat  (  body  :  [  .  ]  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #outline(fill: line(length: 100%))
    
    = A New Beginning
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KQmhOQJ1ylUUEeut6OI0rQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` entry ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Represents each entry line in an outline, including the reference to the
outlined element, its page number, and the filler content between both.

This element is intended for use with show rules to control the appearance of
outlines. To customize an entry's line, you can build it from scratch by
accessing the ` level ` , ` element ` , ` body ` , ` fill ` and ` page `
fields on the entry.

outline  .  entry  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #set heading(numbering: "1.")
    
    #show outline.entry.where(
      level: 1
    ): it => {
      v(12pt, weak: true)
      strong(it)
    }
    
    #outline(indent: auto)
    
    = Introduction
    = Background
    == History
    == State of the Art
    = Analysis
    == Setup
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/z5yX2QHZa1YP1epncxVx1wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` level `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The nesting level of this outline entry. Starts at ` 1  ` for top-level
entries.

####  ` element `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The element this entry refers to. Its location will be available through the [
` location ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/#definitions-location)
method on content and can be [ linked ](/docs/reference/model/link/) to.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content which is displayed in place of the referred element at its entry
in the outline. For a heading, this would be its number followed by the
heading's title, for example.

####  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content used to fill the space between the element's outline and its page
number, as defined by the outline element this entry is located in. When `
none  ` , empty space is inserted in that gap instead.

Note that, when using show rules to override outline entries, it is
recommended to wrap the filling content in a [ ` box `
](/docs/reference/layout/box/ "`box`") with fractional width. For example, `
box  (  width  :  1fr  ,  repeat  [  -  ]  )  ` would show precisely as many `
- ` characters as necessary to fill a particular gap.

####  ` page `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The page number of the element this entry links to, formatted with the
numbering set for the referenced page.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Numbering  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Paragraph  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/par/)



# **docs/reference/model/enum.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Numbered List ](/docs/reference/model/enum/)

#  ` enum ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A numbered list.

Displays a sequence of items vertically and numbers them consecutively.

##  Example

    
    
    Automatically numbered:
    + Preparations
    + Analysis
    + Conclusions
    
    Manually numbered:
    2. What is the first step?
    5. I am confused.
    +  Moving on ...
    
    Multiple lines:
    + This enum item has multiple
      lines because the next line
      is indented.
    
    Function call.
    #enum[First][Second]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HrnJ1mRKvbXNf6U4DmZCaAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can easily switch all your enumerations to a different numbering style
with a set rule.

    
    
    #set enum(numbering: "a)")
    
    + Starting off ...
    + Don't forget step two
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hFb68a8DC-Rvf_eMOYtVMwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also use [ ` enum.item ` ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#definitions-
item) to programmatically customize the number of each item in the
enumeration:

    
    
    #enum(
      enum.item(1)[First step],
      enum.item(5)[Fifth step],
      enum.item(10)[Tenth step]
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/uRQbjXrkv7FwltBxluVMMAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This functions also has dedicated syntax:

  * Starting a line with a plus sign creates an automatically numbered enumeration item. 
  * Starting a line with a number followed by a dot creates an explicitly numbered enumeration item. 

Enumeration items can contain multiple paragraphs and other block-level
content. All content that is indented more than an item's marker becomes part
of that item.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

enum  (

tight  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  numbering  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  start  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  full  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  body-indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  spacing  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  number-align  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` tight `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Defines the default [ spacing ](/docs/reference/model/enum/#parameters-
spacing) of the enumeration. If it is ` false  ` , the items are spaced apart
with [ paragraph spacing ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) . If
it is ` true  ` , they use [ paragraph leading
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) instead. This makes the list
more compact, which can look better if the items are short.

In markup mode, the value of this parameter is determined based on whether
items are separated with a blank line. If items directly follow each other,
this is set to ` true  ` ; if items are separated by a blank line, this is set
to ` false  ` . The markup-defined tightness cannot be overridden with set
rules.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    + If an enum has a lot of text, and
      maybe other inline content, it
      should not be tight anymore.
    
    + To make an enum wide, simply
      insert a blank line between the
      items.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/CGCi1WYCPLux25Xc9ZWwDQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` numbering `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to number the enumeration. Accepts a [ numbering pattern or function
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) .

If the numbering pattern contains multiple counting symbols, they apply to
nested enums. If given a function, the function receives one argument if `
full ` is ` false  ` and multiple arguments if ` full ` is ` true  ` .

Default: ` "1."  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set enum(numbering: "1.a)")
    + Different
    + Numbering
      + Nested
      + Items
    + Style
    
    #set enum(numbering: n => super[#n])
    + Superscript
    + Numbering!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/b_5poTPc-SH9hcwOp4TcbAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Which number to start the enumeration with.

Default: ` 1  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #enum(
      start: 3,
      [Skipping],
      [Ahead],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/NqaMIUfLtrq2fhf9xChjagAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` full `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to display the full numbering, including the numbers of all parent
enumerations.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set enum(numbering: "1.a)", full: true)
    + Cook
      + Heat water
      + Add ingredients
    + Eat
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ecL0fn92ARx_6xbLZYFkVAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indentation of each item.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` body-indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The space between the numbering and the body of each item.

Default: ` 0.5em  `

###  ` spacing `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between the items of the enumeration.

If set to ` auto  ` , uses paragraph [ ` leading `
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) for tight enumerations and
paragraph [ ` spacing ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) for
wide (non-tight) enumerations.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` number-align `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The alignment that enum numbers should have.

By default, this is set to ` end  +  top ` , which aligns enum numbers towards
end of the current text direction (in left-to-right script, for example, this
is the same as ` right ` ) and at the top of the line. The choice of ` end `
for horizontal alignment of enum numbers is usually preferred over ` start ` ,
as numbers then grow away from the text instead of towards it, avoiding
certain visual issues. This option lets you override this behaviour, however.
(Also to note is that the [ unordered list ](/docs/reference/model/list/) uses
a different method for this, by giving the ` marker ` content an alignment
directly.).

Default: ` end  +  top `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set enum(number-align: start + bottom)
    
    Here are some powers of two:
    1. One
    2. Two
    4. Four
    8. Eight
    16. Sixteen
    32. Thirty two
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/s-zUl9r9z6yKdW4VnsLi_AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The numbered list's items.

When using the enum syntax, adjacent items are automatically collected into
enumerations, even through constructs like for loops.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #for phase in (
       "Launch",
       "Orbit",
       "Descent",
    ) [+ #phase]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9haSHPkr8gDAx-1cEtmf8QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` item ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

An enumeration item.

enum  .  item  (

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` number `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The item's number.

Default: ` none  `

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The item's body.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Link  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/link/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Numbering  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/numbering/)



# **docs/reference/model/table.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Table ](/docs/reference/model/table/)

#  ` table ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A table of items.

Tables are used to arrange content in cells. Cells can contain arbitrary
content, including multiple paragraphs and are specified in row-major order.
For a hands-on explanation of all the ways you can use and customize tables in
Typst, check out the [ table guide ](/docs/guides/table-guide/) .

Because tables are just grids with different defaults for some cell properties
(notably ` stroke ` and ` inset ` ), refer to the [ grid documentation
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/) for more information on how to size the table
tracks and specify the cell appearance properties.

If you are unsure whether you should be using a table or a grid, consider
whether the content you are arranging semantically belongs together as a set
of related data points or similar or whether you are just want to enhance your
presentation by arranging unrelated content in a grid. In the former case, a
table is the right choice, while in the latter case, a grid is more
appropriate. Furthermore, Typst will annotate its output in the future such
that screenreaders will announce content in ` table ` as tabular while a
grid's content will be announced no different than multiple content blocks in
the document flow.

Note that, to override a particular cell's properties or apply show rules on
table cells, you can use the [ ` table.cell `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell) element. See its
documentation for more information.

Although the ` table ` and the ` grid ` share most properties, set and show
rules on one of them do not affect the other.

To give a table a caption and make it [ referenceable
](/docs/reference/model/ref/) , put it into a [ figure
](/docs/reference/model/figure/ "figure") .

##  Example

The example below demonstrates some of the most common table options.

    
    
    #table(
      columns: (1fr, auto, auto),
      inset: 10pt,
      align: horizon,
      table.header(
        [], [*Volume*], [*Parameters*],
      ),
      image("cylinder.svg"),
      $ pi h (D^2 - d^2) / 4 $,
      [
        $h$: height \
        $D$: outer radius \
        $d$: inner radius
      ],
      image("tetrahedron.svg"),
      $ sqrt(2) / 12 a^3 $,
      [$a$: edge length]
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KSzjBsOqtudzwvK6Zvp9uwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Much like with grids, you can use [ ` table.cell `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell) to customize the appearance
and the position of each cell.

    
    
    #set table(
      stroke: none,
      gutter: 0.2em,
      fill: (x, y) =>
        if x == 0 or y == 0 { gray },
      inset: (right: 1.5em),
    )
    
    #show table.cell: it => {
      if it.x == 0 or it.y == 0 {
        set text(white)
        strong(it)
      } else if it.body == [] {
        // Replace empty cells with 'N/A'
        pad(..it.inset)[_N/A_]
      } else {
        it
      }
    }
    
    #let a = table.cell(
      fill: green.lighten(60%),
    )[A]
    #let b = table.cell(
      fill: aqua.lighten(60%),
    )[B]
    
    #table(
      columns: 4,
      [], [Exam 1], [Exam 2], [Exam 3],
    
      [John], [], a, [],
      [Mary], [], a, a,
      [Robert], b, a, b,
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/D_wYQ9Nqm8ZPq6ssgJwiZQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

table  (

columns  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  rows  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  gutter  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  column-gutter  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  row-gutter  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  align  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  inset  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` columns `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column sizes. See the [ grid documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/)
for more information on track sizing.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` rows `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row sizes. See the [ grid documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/)
for more information on track sizing.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` gutter `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gaps between rows and columns. This is a shorthand for setting ` column-
gutter ` and ` row-gutter ` to the same value. See the [ grid documentation
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/) for more information on gutters.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` column-gutter `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gaps between columns. Takes precedence over ` gutter ` . See the [ grid
documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/) for more information on gutters.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` row-gutter `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gaps between rows. Takes precedence over ` gutter ` . See the [ grid
documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/) for more information on gutters.

Default: ` (  )  `

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to fill the cells.

This can be a color or a function that returns a color. The function receives
the cells' column and row indices, starting from zero. This can be used to
implement striped tables.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #table(
      fill: (x, _) =>
        if calc.odd(x) { luma(240) }
        else { white },
      align: (x, y) =>
        if y == 0 { center }
        else if x == 0 { left }
        else { right },
      columns: 4,
      [], [*Q1*], [*Q2*], [*Q3*],
      [Revenue:], [1000 â¬], [2000 â¬], [3000 â¬],
      [Expenses:], [500 â¬], [1000 â¬], [1500 â¬],
      [Profit:], [500 â¬], [1000 â¬], [1500 â¬],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HObhPJHvYkiYqHCjRK1JHwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` align `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to align the cells' content.

This can either be a single alignment, an array of alignments (corresponding
to each column) or a function that returns an alignment. The function receives
the cells' column and row indices, starting from zero. If set to ` auto  ` ,
the outer alignment is used.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #table(
      columns: 3,
      align: (left, center, right),
      [Hello], [Hello], [Hello],
      [A], [B], [C],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_fBgotCl-LtVjvGU4yJFLQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke") the cells.

Strokes can be disabled by setting this to ` none  ` .

If it is necessary to place lines which can cross spacing between cells
produced by the ` gutter ` option, or to override the stroke between multiple
specific cells, consider specifying one or more of [ ` table.hline `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline) and [ ` table.vline `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-vline) alongside your table cells.

See the [ grid documentation ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#parameters-stroke)
for more information on strokes.

Default: ` 1pt  +  black `

###  ` inset `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to pad the cells' content.

Default: ` 0%  +  5pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #table(
      inset: 10pt,
      [Hello],
      [World],
    )
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      inset: (
        x: 20pt,
        y: 10pt,
      ),
      [Hello],
      [World],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/f1kE1ENTTB02iZKKPoV_XwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The contents of the table cells, plus any extra table lines specified with the
[ ` table.hline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline) and [ `
table.vline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-vline) elements.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` cell ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A cell in the table. Use this to position a cell manually or to apply styling.
To do the latter, you can either use the function to override the properties
for a particular cell, or use it in show rules to apply certain styles to
multiple cells at once.

Perhaps the most important use case of ` table  .  cell ` is to make a cell
span multiple columns and/or rows with the ` colspan ` and ` rowspan ` fields.

table  .  cell  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  x  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  y  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  colspan  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  rowspan  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  fill  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  align  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  inset  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  breakable  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): strong
    #set table(
      stroke: (x, y) => if y == 0 {
        (bottom: 0.7pt + black)
      },
      align: (x, y) => (
        if x > 0 { center }
        else { left }
      )
    )
    
    #table(
      columns: 3,
      table.header(
        [Substance],
        [Subcritical Â°C],
        [Supercritical Â°C],
      ),
      [Hydrochloric Acid],
      [12.0], [92.1],
      [Sodium Myreth Sulfate],
      [16.6], [104],
      [Potassium Hydroxide],
      table.cell(colspan: 2)[24.7],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/2rQPm8gbRwbFqiITJlD6oAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

For example, you can override the fill, alignment or inset for a single cell:

    
    
    // You can also import those.
    #import table: cell, header
    
    #table(
      columns: 2,
      align: center,
      header(
        [*Trip progress*],
        [*Itinerary*],
      ),
      cell(
        align: right,
        fill: fuchsia.lighten(80%),
        [ð],
      ),
      [Get in, folks!],
      [ð], [Eat curbside hotdog],
      cell(align: left)[ð´ð],
      cell(
        inset: 0.06em,
        text(1.62em)[ððð],
      ),
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VtayZlhMrUWzOmBAyEorDQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You may also apply a show rule on ` table.cell ` to style all cells at once.
Combined with selectors, this allows you to apply styles based on a cell's
position:

    
    
    #show table.cell.where(x: 0): strong
    
    #table(
      columns: 3,
      gutter: 3pt,
      [Name], [Age], [Strength],
      [Hannes], [36], [Grace],
      [Irma], [50], [Resourcefulness],
      [Vikram], [49], [Perseverance],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/c2SP069qvMBzeFbrjVs8pwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The cell's body.

####  ` x `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's column (zero-indexed). Functions identically to the ` x ` field in
[ ` grid.cell ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell) .

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` y `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's row (zero-indexed). Functions identically to the ` y ` field in [ `
grid.cell ` ](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-cell) .

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` colspan `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of columns spanned by this cell.

Default: ` 1  `

####  ` rowspan `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of rows spanned by this cell.

Default: ` 1  `

####  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ fill ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-fill) override.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` align `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ alignment ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-align)
override.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` inset `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ inset ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-inset) override.

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The cell's [ stroke ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-stroke)
override.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

####  ` breakable `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether rows spanned by this cell can be placed in different pages. When equal
to ` auto  ` , a cell spanning only fixed-size rows is unbreakable, while a
cell spanning at least one ` auto  ` -sized row is breakable.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` hline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A horizontal line in the table.

Overrides any per-cell stroke, including stroke specified through the table's
` stroke ` field. Can cross spacing between cells created through the table's
[ ` column-gutter ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-column-gutter)
option.

Use this function instead of the table's ` stroke ` field if you want to
manually place a horizontal line at a specific position in a single table.
Consider using [ table's ` stroke ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-
stroke) field or [ ` table.cell ` 's ` stroke `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell-stroke) field instead if the
line you want to place is part of all your tables' designs.

table  .  hline  (

y  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  start  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  end  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  stroke  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  position  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #set table.hline(stroke: .6pt)
    
    #table(
      stroke: none,
      columns: (auto, 1fr),
      [09:00], [Badge pick up],
      [09:45], [Opening Keynote],
      [10:30], [Talk: Typst's Future],
      [11:15], [Session: Good PRs],
      table.hline(start: 1),
      [Noon], [_Lunch break_],
      table.hline(start: 1),
      [14:00], [Talk: Tracked Layout],
      [15:00], [Talk: Automations],
      [16:00], [Workshop: Tables],
      table.hline(),
      [19:00], [Day 1 Attendee Mixer],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Fl-W72wh8hlKb72YjlJ0PgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` y `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row above which the horizontal line is placed (zero-indexed). Functions
identically to the ` y ` field in [ ` grid.hline `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-hline-y) .

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column at which the horizontal line starts (zero-indexed, inclusive).

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column before which the horizontal line ends (zero-indexed, exclusive).

Default: ` none  `

####  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The line's stroke.

Specifying ` none  ` removes any lines previously placed across this line's
range, including hlines or per-cell stroke below it.

Default: ` 1pt  +  black `

####  ` position `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The position at which the line is placed, given its row ( ` y ` ) - either `
top ` to draw above it or ` bottom ` to draw below it.

This setting is only relevant when row gutter is enabled (and shouldn't be
used otherwise - prefer just increasing the ` y ` field by one instead), since
then the position below a row becomes different from the position above the
next row due to the spacing between both.

Default: ` top `

###  ` vline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A vertical line in the table. See the docs for [ ` grid.vline `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-vline) for more information
regarding how to use this element's fields.

Overrides any per-cell stroke, including stroke specified through the table's
` stroke ` field. Can cross spacing between cells created through the table's
[ ` row-gutter ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-row-gutter) option.

Similar to [ ` table.hline ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-hline)
, use this function if you want to manually place a vertical line at a
specific position in a single table and use the [ table's ` stroke `
](/docs/reference/model/table/#parameters-stroke) field or [ ` table.cell ` 's
` stroke ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-cell-stroke) field
instead if the line you want to place is part of all your tables' designs.

table  .  vline  (

x  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  start  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  end  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
,  stroke  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  position  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` x `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The column before which the horizontal line is placed (zero-indexed).
Functions identically to the ` x ` field in [ ` grid.vline `
](/docs/reference/layout/grid/#definitions-vline) .

Default: ` auto  `

####  ` start `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row at which the vertical line starts (zero-indexed, inclusive).

Default: ` 0  `

####  ` end `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The row on top of which the vertical line ends (zero-indexed, exclusive).

Default: ` none  `

####  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The line's stroke.

Specifying ` none  ` removes any lines previously placed across this line's
range, including vlines or per-cell stroke below it.

Default: ` 1pt  +  black `

####  ` position `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The position at which the line is placed, given its column ( ` x ` ) - either
` start ` to draw before it or ` end ` to draw after it.

The values ` left ` and ` right ` are also accepted, but discouraged as they
cause your table to be inconsistent between left-to-right and right-to-left
documents.

This setting is only relevant when column gutter is enabled (and shouldn't be
used otherwise - prefer just increasing the ` x ` field by one instead), since
then the position after a column becomes different from the position before
the next column due to the spacing between both.

Default: ` start `

###  ` header ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A repeatable table header.

You should wrap your tables' heading rows in this function even if you do not
plan to wrap your table across pages because Typst will use this function to
attach accessibility metadata to tables in the future and ensure universal
access to your document.

You can use the ` repeat ` parameter to control whether your table's header
will be repeated across pages.

table  .  header  (

repeat  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #set page(height: 11.5em)
    #set table(
      fill: (x, y) =>
        if x == 0 or y == 0 {
          gray.lighten(40%)
        },
      align: right,
    )
    
    #show table.cell.where(x: 0): strong
    #show table.cell.where(y: 0): strong
    
    #table(
      columns: 4,
      table.header(
        [], [Blue chip],
        [Fresh IPO], [Penny st'k],
      ),
      table.cell(
        rowspan: 6,
        align: horizon,
        rotate(-90deg, reflow: true)[
          *USD / day*
        ],
      ),
      [0.20], [104], [5],
      [3.17], [108], [4],
      [1.59], [84],  [1],
      [0.26], [98],  [15],
      [0.01], [195], [4],
      [7.34], [57],  [2],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IHpzp-b7mQ7ctAllSxEWfQAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/IHpzp-b7mQ7ctAllSxEWfQAAAAAAAAAB.png)

####  ` repeat `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether this header should be repeated across pages.

Default: ` true  `

####  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The cells and lines within the header.

###  ` footer ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A repeatable table footer.

Just like the [ ` table.header ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/#definitions-
header) element, the footer can repeat itself on every page of the table. This
is useful for improving legibility by adding the column labels in both the
header and footer of a large table, totals, or other information that should
be visible on every page.

No other table cells may be placed after the footer.

table  .  footer  (

repeat  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` repeat `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether this footer should be repeated across pages.

Default: ` true  `

####  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The cells and lines within the footer.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Strong Emphasis  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/strong/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Term List  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/terms/)



# **docs/reference/model/par.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Paragraph ](/docs/reference/model/par/)

#  ` par ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Arranges text, spacing and inline-level elements into a paragraph.

Although this function is primarily used in set rules to affect paragraph
properties, it can also be used to explicitly render its argument onto a
paragraph of its own.

##  Example

    
    
    #set par(
      first-line-indent: 1em,
      spacing: 0.65em,
      justify: true,
    )
    
    We proceed by contradiction.
    Suppose that there exists a set
    of positive integers $a$, $b$, and
    $c$ that satisfies the equation
    $a^n + b^n = c^n$ for some
    integer value of $n > 2$.
    
    Without loss of generality,
    let $a$ be the smallest of the
    three integers. Then, we ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yrIipb0QYzuDEgQNZF57rwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

par  (

leading  :  [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  spacing  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  justify  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  linebreaks  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  first-line-indent  :  [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,
hanging-indent  :  [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` leading `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between lines.

Leading defines the spacing between the [ bottom edge
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-bottom-edge) of one line and the [ top
edge ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-top-edge) of the following line.
By default, these two properties are up to the font, but they can also be
configured manually with a text set rule.

By setting top edge, bottom edge, and leading, you can also configure a
consistent baseline-to-baseline distance. You could, for instance, set the
leading to ` 1em  ` , the top-edge to ` 0.8em  ` , and the bottom-edge to ` -
0.2em  ` to get a baseline gap of exactly ` 2em  ` . The exact distribution of
the top- and bottom-edge values affects the bounds of the first and last line.

Default: ` 0.65em  `

###  ` spacing `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between paragraphs.

Just like leading, this defines the spacing between the bottom edge of a
paragraph's last line and the top edge of the next paragraph's first line.

When a paragraph is adjacent to a [ ` block ` ](/docs/reference/layout/block/
"`block`") that is not a paragraph, that block's [ ` above `
](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-above) or [ ` below `
](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-below) property takes precedence
over the paragraph spacing. Headings, for instance, reduce the spacing below
them by default for a better look.

Default: ` 1.2em  `

###  ` justify `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to justify text in its line.

Hyphenation will be enabled for justified paragraphs if the [ text function's
` hyphenate ` property ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-hyphenate) is
set to ` auto  ` and the current language is known.

Note that the current [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/align/#parameters-
alignment) still has an effect on the placement of the last line except if it
ends with a [ justified line break
](/docs/reference/text/linebreak/#parameters-justify) .

Default: ` false  `

###  ` linebreaks `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to determine line breaks.

When this property is set to ` auto  ` , its default value, optimized line
breaks will be used for justified paragraphs. Enabling optimized line breaks
for ragged paragraphs may also be worthwhile to improve the appearance of the
text.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  simple  " ` |  Determine the line breaks in a simple first-fit style.   
` "  optimized  " ` |  Optimize the line breaks for the whole paragraph.  Typst will try to produce more evenly filled lines of text by considering the whole paragraph when calculating line breaks.   
  
Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(width: 207pt)
    #set par(linebreaks: "simple")
    Some texts feature many longer
    words. Those are often exceedingly
    challenging to break in a visually
    pleasing way.
    
    #set par(linebreaks: "optimized")
    Some texts feature many longer
    words. Those are often exceedingly
    challenging to break in a visually
    pleasing way.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/r-fawkmmJ6Sniwi8--ib5gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` first-line-indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indent the first line of a paragraph should have.

Only the first line of a consecutive paragraph will be indented (not the first
one in a block or on the page).

By typographic convention, paragraph breaks are indicated either by some space
between paragraphs or by indented first lines. Consider reducing the [
paragraph spacing ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-spacing) to the [
` leading ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) when using this
property (e.g. using ` #  set  par  (  spacing  :  0.65em  )  ` ).

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` hanging-indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indent all but the first line of a paragraph should have.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The contents of the paragraph.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` line ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A paragraph line.

This element is exclusively used for line number configuration through set
rules and cannot be placed.

The [ ` numbering ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#definitions-line-numbering)
option is used to enable line numbers by specifying a numbering format.

par  .  line  (

numbering  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  number-align  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  number-margin  :  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  number-clearance  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  numbering-scope  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #set par.line(numbering: "1")
    
    Roses are red. \
    Violets are blue. \
    Typst is there for you.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/b257YLHUEagbFWlPeD4gEwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The ` numbering ` option takes either a predefined [ numbering pattern
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) or a function returning styled content.
You can disable line numbers for text inside certain elements by setting the
numbering to ` none  ` using show-set rules.

    
    
    // Styled red line numbers.
    #set par.line(
      numbering: n => text(red)[#n]
    )
    
    // Disable numbers inside figures.
    #show figure: set par.line(
      numbering: none
    )
    
    Roses are red. \
    Violets are blue.
    
    #figure(
      caption: [Without line numbers.]
    )[
      Lorem ipsum \
      dolor sit amet
    ]
    
    The text above is a sample \
    originating from distant times.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/WJNwFvR3ObvODT-MbWqflAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This element exposes further options which may be used to control other
aspects of line numbering, such as its [ alignment
](/docs/reference/model/par/#definitions-line-number-align) or [ margin
](/docs/reference/model/par/#definitions-line-number-margin) . In addition,
you can control whether the numbering is reset on each page through the [ `
numbering-scope ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#definitions-line-numbering-
scope) option.

####  ` numbering `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to number each line. Accepts a [ numbering pattern or function
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) .

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par.line(numbering: "I")
    
    Roses are red. \
    Violets are blue. \
    Typst is there for you.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/O-oJqYc-OwEoxappxK4AZAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` number-align `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The alignment of line numbers associated with each line.

The default of ` auto  ` indicates a smart default where numbers grow
horizontally away from the text, considering the margin they're in and the
current text direction.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par.line(
      numbering: "I",
      number-align: left,
    )
    
    Hello world! \
    Today is a beautiful day \
    For exploring the world.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/XfwBMgYjt2fGeRgFr_kj4AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` number-margin `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The margin at which line numbers appear.

_Note:_ In a multi-column document, the line numbers for paragraphs inside the
last column will always appear on the ` end ` margin (right margin for left-
to-right text and left margin for right-to-left), regardless of this
configuration. That behavior cannot be changed at this moment.

Default: ` start `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par.line(
      numbering: "1",
      number-margin: right,
    )
    
    = Report
    - Brightness: Dark, yet darker
    - Readings: Negative
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/vf0ZBrlygVUABySMskTaKQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` number-clearance `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The distance between line numbers and text.

The default value of ` auto  ` results in a clearance that is adaptive to the
page width and yields reasonable results in most cases.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par.line(
      numbering: "1",
      number-clearance: 4pt,
    )
    
    Typesetting \
    Styling \
    Layout
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MgiUB3LoxE0JROWoHJPslgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` numbering-scope `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Controls when to reset line numbering.

_Note:_ The line numbering scope must be uniform across each page run (a page
run is a sequence of pages without an explicit pagebreak in between). For this
reason, set rules for it should be defined before any page content, typically
at the very start of the document.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  document  " ` |  Indicates the line number counter spans the whole document, that is, is never automatically reset.   
` "  page  " ` |  Indicates the line number counter should be reset at the start of every new page.   
  
Default: ` "document"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par.line(
      numbering: "1",
      numbering-scope: "page",
    )
    
    First line \
    Second line
    #pagebreak()
    First line again \
    Second line again
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MmmIOu-UB2sC4GlOg3oj9AAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/MmmIOu-UB2sC4GlOg3oj9AAAAAAAAAAB.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Outline  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/outline/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Paragraph Break  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/parbreak/)



# **docs/reference/model/list.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Bullet List ](/docs/reference/model/list/)

#  ` list ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A bullet list.

Displays a sequence of items vertically, with each item introduced by a
marker.

##  Example

    
    
    Normal list.
    - Text
    - Math
    - Layout
    - ...
    
    Multiple lines.
    - This list item spans multiple
      lines because it is indented.
    
    Function call.
    #list(
      [Foundations],
      [Calculate],
      [Construct],
      [Data Loading],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dGd96M9aTTHo-jKJ9y73kwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This functions also has dedicated syntax: Start a line with a hyphen, followed
by a space to create a list item. A list item can contain multiple paragraphs
and other block-level content. All content that is indented more than an
item's marker becomes part of that item.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

list  (

tight  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  marker  :  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  body-indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  spacing  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` tight `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Defines the default [ spacing ](/docs/reference/model/list/#parameters-
spacing) of the list. If it is ` false  ` , the items are spaced apart with [
paragraph spacing ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) . If it is
` true  ` , they use [ paragraph leading
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) instead. This makes the list
more compact, which can look better if the items are short.

In markup mode, the value of this parameter is determined based on whether
items are separated with a blank line. If items directly follow each other,
this is set to ` true  ` ; if items are separated by a blank line, this is set
to ` false  ` . The markup-defined tightness cannot be overridden with set
rules.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    - If a list has a lot of text, and
      maybe other inline content, it
      should not be tight anymore.
    
    - To make a list wide, simply insert
      a blank line between the items.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4FUPGE5Zxz4-Z1S-m_IFCQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` marker `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The marker which introduces each item.

Instead of plain content, you can also pass an array with multiple markers
that should be used for nested lists. If the list nesting depth exceeds the
number of markers, the markers are cycled. For total control, you may pass a
function that maps the list's nesting depth (starting from ` 0  ` ) to a
desired marker.

Default: ` (  [  â¢  ]  ,  [  â£  ]  ,  [  â  ]  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set list(marker: [--])
    - A more classic list
    - With en-dashes
    
    #set list(marker: ([â¢], [--]))
    - Top-level
      - Nested
      - Items
    - Items
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/rGFZOVIfGIEORB3iENBotQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indent of each item.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` body-indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between the marker and the body of each item.

Default: ` 0.5em  `

###  ` spacing `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between the items of the list.

If set to ` auto  ` , uses paragraph [ ` leading `
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) for tight lists and paragraph
[ ` spacing ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) for wide (non-
tight) lists.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The bullet list's children.

When using the list syntax, adjacent items are automatically collected into
lists, even through constructs like for loops.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #for letter in "ABC" [
      - Letter #letter
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/scttBXkLjYOvlJchbuo00wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` item ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A bullet list item.

list  .  item  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The item's body.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Bibliography  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-
right.svg) Cite  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/cite/)



# **docs/reference/model/emph.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Emphasis ](/docs/reference/model/emph/)

#  ` emph ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Emphasizes content by toggling italics.

  * If the current [ text style ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-style) is ` "normal"  ` , this turns it into ` "italic"  ` . 
  * If it is already ` "italic"  ` or ` "oblique"  ` , it turns it back to ` "normal"  ` . 

##  Example

    
    
    This is _emphasized._ \
    This is #emph[too.]
    
    #show emph: it => {
      text(blue, it.body)
    }
    
    This is _emphasized_ differently.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/p3cGCgaJdrkrScOita7QfgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: To emphasize content, simply enclose
it in underscores ( ` _ ` ). Note that this only works at word boundaries. To
emphasize part of a word, you have to use the function.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

emph  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to emphasize.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Document  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/document/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Figure  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/figure/)



# **docs/reference/model/footnote.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Footnote ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/)

#  ` footnote ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A footnote.

Includes additional remarks and references on the same page with footnotes. A
footnote will insert a superscript number that links to the note at the bottom
of the page. Notes are numbered sequentially throughout your document and can
break across multiple pages.

To customize the appearance of the entry in the footnote listing, see [ `
footnote.entry ` ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/#definitions-entry) . The
footnote itself is realized as a normal superscript, so you can use a set rule
on the [ ` super ` ](/docs/reference/text/super/ "`super`") function to
customize it. You can also apply a show rule to customize only the footnote
marker (superscript number) in the running text.

##  Example

    
    
    Check the docs for more details.
    #footnote[https://typst.app/docs]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Rux1n4IPwOkOpn1s57WxpAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

The footnote automatically attaches itself to the preceding word, even if
there is a space before it in the markup. To force space, you can use the
string ` #  " "  ` or explicit [ horizontal spacing
](/docs/reference/layout/h/) .

By giving a label to a footnote, you can have multiple references to it.

    
    
    You can edit Typst documents online.
    #footnote[https://typst.app/app] <fn>
    Checkout Typst's website. @fn
    And the online app. #footnote(<fn>)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xECSHtr0VhzFh5onpw48GQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

_Note:_ Set and show rules in the scope where ` footnote ` is called may not
apply to the footnote's content. See [ here
](https://github.com/typst/typst/issues/1467#issuecomment-1588799440) for more
information.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

footnote  (

numbering  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` numbering `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to number footnotes.

By default, the footnote numbering continues throughout your document. If you
prefer per-page footnote numbering, you can reset the footnote [ counter
](/docs/reference/introspection/counter/ "counter") in the page [ header
](/docs/reference/layout/page/#parameters-header) . In the future, there might
be a simpler way to achieve this.

Default: ` "1"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set footnote(numbering: "*")
    
    Footnotes:
    #footnote[Star],
    #footnote[Dagger]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/CVlSBedIWhhzGwE8LefQmwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to put into the footnote. Can also be the label of another
footnote this one should point to.

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` entry ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

An entry in a footnote list.

This function is not intended to be called directly. Instead, it is used in
set and show rules to customize footnote listings.

footnote  .  entry  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  separator  :  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  clearance  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  gap  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #show footnote.entry: set text(red)
    
    My footnote listing
    #footnote[It's down here]
    has red text!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OQcOLIwIWFG81ucXxeuiVwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

_Note:_ Footnote entry properties must be uniform across each page run (a page
run is a sequence of pages without an explicit pagebreak in between). For this
reason, set and show rules for footnote entries should be defined before any
page content, typically at the very start of the document.

####  ` note `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The footnote for this entry. It's location can be used to determine the
footnote counter state.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #show footnote.entry: it => {
      let loc = it.note.location()
      numbering(
        "1: ",
        ..counter(footnote).at(loc),
      )
      it.note.body
    }
    
    Customized #footnote[Hello]
    listing #footnote[World! ð]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/pITXewKM6sSB5ed44fUp7wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` separator `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The separator between the document body and the footnote listing.

Default: ` line  (  length  :  30%  +  0pt  ,  stroke  :  0.5pt  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set footnote.entry(
      separator: repeat[.]
    )
    
    Testing a different separator.
    #footnote[
      Unconventional, but maybe
      not that bad?
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/2BZbfiOf16u6fje-JM2KhwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` clearance `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of clearance between the document body and the separator.

Default: ` 1em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set footnote.entry(clearance: 3em)
    
    Footnotes also need ...
    #footnote[
      ... some space to breathe.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/jGI_-Yxsz0NqX0MjmZS_qQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` gap `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The gap between footnote entries.

Default: ` 0.5em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set footnote.entry(gap: 0.8em)
    
    Footnotes:
    #footnote[Spaced],
    #footnote[Apart]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3sggupXU7L_bO6KYRBDWHQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indent of each footnote entry.

Default: ` 1em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set footnote.entry(indent: 0em)
    
    Footnotes:
    #footnote[No],
    #footnote[Indent]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/-zkE_ejQDpF6KTPTlZZ3gwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Figure  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/figure/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Heading  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/heading/)



# **docs/reference/model/terms.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Term List ](/docs/reference/model/terms/)

#  ` terms ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A list of terms and their descriptions.

Displays a sequence of terms and their descriptions vertically. When the
descriptions span over multiple lines, they use hanging indent to communicate
the visual hierarchy.

##  Example

    
    
    / Ligature: A merged glyph.
    / Kerning: A spacing adjustment
      between two adjacent letters.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/qjdQTTJFa_RYtcfu42IiawAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: Starting a line with a slash,
followed by a term, a colon and a description creates a term list item.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

terms  (

tight  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  separator  :  [
content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  hanging-indent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  spacing  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  ..  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` tight `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Defines the default [ spacing ](/docs/reference/model/terms/#parameters-
spacing) of the term list. If it is ` false  ` , the items are spaced apart
with [ paragraph spacing ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) . If
it is ` true  ` , they use [ paragraph leading
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) instead. This makes the list
more compact, which can look better if the items are short.

In markup mode, the value of this parameter is determined based on whether
items are separated with a blank line. If items directly follow each other,
this is set to ` true  ` ; if items are separated by a blank line, this is set
to ` false  ` . The markup-defined tightness cannot be overridden with set
rules.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    / Fact: If a term list has a lot
      of text, and maybe other inline
      content, it should not be tight
      anymore.
    
    / Tip: To make it wide, simply
      insert a blank line between the
      items.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/skkuR2BgltlCHUy9cPpX7gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` separator `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The separator between the item and the description.

If you want to just separate them with a certain amount of space, use ` h  (
2cm  ,  weak  :  true  )  ` as the separator and replace ` 2cm  ` with your
desired amount of space.

Default: ` h  (  amount  :  0.6em  ,  weak  :  true  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set terms(separator: [: ])
    
    / Colon: A nice separator symbol.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xyyblMI8l_99lTt1_p5kWgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The indentation of each item.

Default: ` 0pt  `

###  ` hanging-indent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The hanging indent of the description.

This is in addition to the whole item's ` indent ` .

Default: ` 2em  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set terms(hanging-indent: 0pt)
    / Term: This term list does not
      make use of hanging indents.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6yYrKErT2JtRwBRmpS8r5wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` spacing `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The spacing between the items of the term list.

If set to ` auto  ` , uses paragraph [ ` leading `
](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-leading) for tight term lists and
paragraph [ ` spacing ` ](/docs/reference/model/par/#parameters-spacing) for
wide (non-tight) term lists.

Default: ` auto  `

###  ` children `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The term list's children.

When using the term list syntax, adjacent items are automatically collected
into term lists, even through constructs like for loops.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #for (year, product) in (
      "1978": "TeX",
      "1984": "LaTeX",
      "2019": "Typst",
    ) [/ #product: Born in #year.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/wkvQM6jeTkSTRoaT9Y0lSQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` item ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A term list item.

terms  .  item  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` term `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The term described by the list item.

####  ` description `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The description of the term.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Table  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/table/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Text  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/)



# **docs/reference/model/link.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Link ](/docs/reference/model/link/)

#  ` link ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Links to a URL or a location in the document.

By default, links are not styled any different from normal text. However, you
can easily apply a style of your choice with a show rule.

##  Example

    
    
    #show link: underline
    
    https://example.com \
    
    #link("https://example.com") \
    #link("https://example.com")[
      See example.com
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/mBfQJYO4ObjIyuLi_FjKfgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: Text that starts with ` http:// ` or
` https:// ` is automatically turned into a link.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

link  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` dest `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ location
](/docs/reference/introspection/location/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The destination the link points to.

  * To link to web pages, ` dest ` should be a valid URL string. If the URL is in the ` mailto: ` or ` tel: ` scheme and the ` body ` parameter is omitted, the email address or phone number will be the link's body, without the scheme. 

  * To link to another part of the document, ` dest ` can take one of three forms: 

    * A [ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/ "label") attached to an element. If you also want automatic text for the link based on the element, consider using a [ reference ](/docs/reference/model/ref/) instead. 

    * A [ ` location ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/location/ "`location`") (typically retrieved from [ ` here ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/here/ "`here`") , [ ` locate ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/locate/ "`locate`") or [ ` query ` ](/docs/reference/introspection/query/ "`query`") ). 

    * A dictionary with a ` page ` key of type [ integer ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) and ` x ` and ` y ` coordinates of type [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/ "length") . Pages are counted from one, and the coordinates are relative to the page's top left corner. 

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    = Introduction <intro>
    #link("mailto:hello@typst.app") \
    #link(<intro>)[Go to intro] \
    #link((page: 1, x: 0pt, y: 0pt))[
      Go to top
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/r-LwcI2C1K4OtUWhtvg8QgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content that should become a link.

If ` dest ` is an URL string, the parameter can be omitted. In this case, the
URL will be shown as the link.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Heading  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/heading/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Numbered List  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/enum/)



# **docs/reference/model/cite.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Cite ](/docs/reference/model/cite/)

#  ` cite ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Cite a work from the bibliography.

Before you starting citing, you need to add a [ bibliography
](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/ "bibliography") somewhere in your
document.

##  Example

    
    
    This was already noted by
    pirates long ago. @arrgh
    
    Multiple sources say ...
    @arrgh @netwok.
    
    You can also call `cite`
    explicitly. #cite(<arrgh>)
    
    #bibliography("works.bib")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VelsLOKdUATbBc5AK51_FgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

If your source name contains certain characters such as slashes, which are not
recognized by the ` <> ` syntax, you can explicitly call ` label ` instead.

    
    
    Computer Modern is an example of a modernist serif typeface.
    #cite(label("DBLP:books/lib/Knuth86a")).
    

##  Syntax

This function indirectly has dedicated syntax. [ References
](/docs/reference/model/ref/) can be used to cite works from the bibliography.
The label then corresponds to the citation key.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

cite  (

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) ,  supplement  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  form  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  style  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` key `

[ label ](/docs/reference/foundations/label/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The citation key that identifies the entry in the bibliography that shall be
cited, as a label.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    // All the same
    @netwok \
    #cite(<netwok>) \
    #cite(label("netwok"))
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/fyv1W7ZKnlPyBVM6_1DvjgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` supplement `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A supplement for the citation such as page or chapter number.

In reference syntax, the supplement can be added in square brackets:

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    This has been proven. @distress[p.~7]
    
    #bibliography("works.bib")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yJ9a0jIezaQUawq1k-YqqwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` form `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The kind of citation to produce. Different forms are useful in different
scenarios: A normal citation is useful as a source at the end of a sentence,
while a "prose" citation is more suitable for inclusion in the flow of text.

If set to ` none  ` , the cited work is included in the bibliography, but
nothing will be displayed.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  normal  " ` |  Display in the standard way for the active style.   
` "  prose  " ` |  Produces a citation that is suitable for inclusion in a sentence.   
` "  full  " ` |  Mimics a bibliography entry, with full information about the cited work.   
` "  author  " ` |  Shows only the cited work's author(s).   
` "  year  " ` |  Shows only the cited work's year.   
  
Default: ` "normal"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #cite(<netwok>, form: "prose")
    show the outsized effects of
    pirate life on the human psyche.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xCamzQ_SHz1kKaOAByx_rAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` style `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The citation style.

Should be either ` auto  ` , one of the built-in styles (see below) or a path
to a [ CSL file ](https://citationstyles.org/) . Some of the styles listed
below appear twice, once with their full name and once with a short alias.

When set to ` auto  ` , automatically use the [ bibliography's style
](/docs/reference/model/bibliography/#parameters-style) for the citations.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View options

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  alphanumeric  " ` |  Alphanumeric   
` "  american-anthropological-association  " ` |  American Anthropological Association   
` "  american-chemical-society  " ` |  American Chemical Society   
` "  american-geophysical-union  " ` |  American Geophysical Union   
` "  american-institute-of-aeronautics-and-astronautics  " ` |  American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics   
` "  american-institute-of-physics  " ` |  American Institute of Physics 4th edition   
` "  american-medical-association  " ` |  American Medical Association 11th edition   
` "  american-meteorological-society  " ` |  American Meteorological Society   
` "  american-physics-society  " ` |  American Physical Society   
` "  american-physiological-society  " ` |  American Physiological Society   
` "  american-political-science-association  " ` |  American Political Science Association   
` "  american-psychological-association  " ` |  American Psychological Association 7th edition   
` "  american-society-for-microbiology  " ` |  American Society for Microbiology   
` "  american-society-of-civil-engineers  " ` |  American Society of Civil Engineers   
` "  american-society-of-mechanical-engineers  " ` |  American Society of Mechanical Engineers   
` "  american-sociological-association  " ` |  American Sociological Association 6th/7th edition   
` "  angewandte-chemie  " ` |  Angewandte Chemie International Edition   
` "  annual-reviews  " ` |  Annual Reviews (sorted by order of appearance)   
` "  annual-reviews-author-date  " ` |  Annual Reviews (author-date)   
` "  associacao-brasileira-de-normas-tecnicas  " ` |  AssociaÃ§Ã£o Brasileira de Normas TÃ©cnicas (PortuguÃªs - Brasil)   
` "  association-for-computing-machinery  " ` |  Association for Computing Machinery   
` "  biomed-central  " ` |  BioMed Central   
` "  bristol-university-press  " ` |  Bristol University Press   
` "  british-medical-journal  " ` |  BMJ   
` "  cell  " ` |  Cell   
` "  chicago-author-date  " ` |  Chicago Manual of Style 17th edition (author-date)   
` "  chicago-fullnotes  " ` |  Chicago Manual of Style 17th edition (full note)   
` "  chicago-notes  " ` |  Chicago Manual of Style 17th edition (note)   
` "  copernicus  " ` |  Copernicus Publications   
` "  council-of-science-editors  " ` |  Council of Science Editors, Citation-Sequence (numeric, brackets)   
` "  council-of-science-editors-author-date  " ` |  Council of Science Editors, Name-Year (author-date)   
` "  current-opinion  " ` |  Current Opinion journals   
` "  deutsche-gesellschaft-fÃ¼r-psychologie  " ` |  Deutsche Gesellschaft fÃ¼r Psychologie 5. Auflage (Deutsch)   
` "  deutsche-sprache  " ` |  Deutsche Sprache (Deutsch)   
` "  elsevier-harvard  " ` |  Elsevier - Harvard (with titles)   
` "  elsevier-vancouver  " ` |  Elsevier - Vancouver   
` "  elsevier-with-titles  " ` |  Elsevier (numeric, with titles)   
` "  frontiers  " ` |  Frontiers journals   
` "  future-medicine  " ` |  Future Medicine journals   
` "  future-science  " ` |  Future Science Group   
` "  gb-7714-2005-numeric  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2005 (numeric, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gb-7714-2015-author-date  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2015 (author-date, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gb-7714-2015-note  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2015 (note, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gb-7714-2015-numeric  " ` |  China National Standard GB/T 7714-2015 (numeric, ä¸­æ)   
` "  gost-r-705-2008-numeric  " ` |  Russian GOST R 7.0.5-2008 (numeric)   
` "  harvard-cite-them-right  " ` |  Cite Them Right 12th edition - Harvard   
` "  institute-of-electrical-and-electronics-engineers  " ` |  IEEE   
` "  institute-of-physics-numeric  " ` |  Institute of Physics (numeric)   
` "  iso-690-author-date  " ` |  ISO-690 (author-date, English)   
` "  iso-690-numeric  " ` |  ISO-690 (numeric, English)   
` "  karger  " ` |  Karger journals   
` "  mary-ann-liebert-vancouver  " ` |  Mary Ann Liebert - Vancouver   
` "  modern-humanities-research-association  " ` |  Modern Humanities Research Association 4th edition (note with bibliography)   
` "  modern-language-association  " ` |  Modern Language Association 9th edition   
` "  modern-language-association-8  " ` |  Modern Language Association 8th edition   
` "  multidisciplinary-digital-publishing-institute  " ` |  Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute   
` "  nature  " ` |  Nature   
` "  pensoft  " ` |  Pensoft Journals   
` "  public-library-of-science  " ` |  Public Library of Science   
` "  royal-society-of-chemistry  " ` |  Royal Society of Chemistry   
` "  sage-vancouver  " ` |  SAGE - Vancouver   
` "  sist02  " ` |  SIST02 (æ¥æ¬èª)   
` "  spie  " ` |  SPIE journals   
` "  springer-basic  " ` |  Springer - Basic (numeric, brackets)   
` "  springer-basic-author-date  " ` |  Springer - Basic (author-date)   
` "  springer-fachzeitschriften-medizin-psychologie  " ` |  Springer - Fachzeitschriften Medizin Psychologie (Deutsch)   
` "  springer-humanities-author-date  " ` |  Springer - Humanities (author-date)   
` "  springer-lecture-notes-in-computer-science  " ` |  Springer - Lecture Notes in Computer Science   
` "  springer-mathphys  " ` |  Springer - MathPhys (numeric, brackets)   
` "  springer-socpsych-author-date  " ` |  Springer - SocPsych (author-date)   
` "  springer-vancouver  " ` |  Springer - Vancouver (brackets)   
` "  taylor-and-francis-chicago-author-date  " ` |  Taylor & Francis - Chicago Manual of Style (author-date)   
` "  taylor-and-francis-national-library-of-medicine  " ` |  Taylor & Francis - National Library of Medicine   
` "  the-institution-of-engineering-and-technology  " ` |  The Institution of Engineering and Technology   
` "  the-lancet  " ` |  The Lancet   
` "  thieme  " ` |  Thieme-German (Deutsch)   
` "  trends  " ` |  Trends journals   
` "  turabian-author-date  " ` |  Turabian 9th edition (author-date)   
` "  turabian-fullnote-8  " ` |  Turabian 8th edition (full note)   
` "  vancouver  " ` |  Vancouver   
` "  vancouver-superscript  " ` |  Vancouver (superscript)   
  
Default: ` auto  `

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Bullet List  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/list/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Document  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/document/)



# **docs/reference/model/parbreak.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Paragraph Break ](/docs/reference/model/parbreak/)

#  ` parbreak ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A paragraph break.

This starts a new paragraph. Especially useful when used within code like [
for loops ](/docs/reference/scripting/#loops) . Multiple consecutive paragraph
breaks collapse into a single one.

##  Example

    
    
    #for i in range(3) {
      [Blind text #i: ]
      lorem(5)
      parbreak()
    }
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Ugn0Cpe50EHdh4tXrmb4YAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

Instead of calling this function, you can insert a blank line into your markup
to create a paragraph break.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

parbreak  (

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Paragraph  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/par/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Quote
Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/quote/)



# **docs/reference/model/figure.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Figure ](/docs/reference/model/figure/)

#  ` figure ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A figure with an optional caption.

Automatically detects its kind to select the correct counting track. For
example, figures containing images will be numbered separately from figures
containing tables.

##  Examples

The example below shows a basic figure with an image:

    
    
    @glacier shows a glacier. Glaciers
    are complex systems.
    
    #figure(
      image("glacier.jpg", width: 80%),
      caption: [A curious figure.],
    ) <glacier>
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/udw8J1zW8CDfoYB1XTzdLgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also insert [ tables ](/docs/reference/model/table/) into figures to
give them a caption. The figure will detect this and automatically use a
separate counter.

    
    
    #figure(
      table(
        columns: 4,
        [t], [1], [2], [3],
        [y], [0.3s], [0.4s], [0.8s],
      ),
      caption: [Timing results],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_RaOJik9O5UoQO8Eq6OM9gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

This behaviour can be overridden by explicitly specifying the figure's ` kind
` . All figures of the same kind share a common counter.

##  Figure behaviour

By default, figures are placed within the flow of content. To make them float
to the top or bottom of the page, you can use the [ ` placement `
](/docs/reference/model/figure/#parameters-placement) argument.

If your figure is too large and its contents are breakable across pages (e.g.
if it contains a large table), then you can make the figure itself breakable
across pages as well with this show rule:

    
    
    #show figure: set block(breakable: true)
    

See the [ block ](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-breakable)
documentation for more information about breakable and non-breakable blocks.

##  Caption customization

You can modify the appearance of the figure's caption with its associated [ `
caption ` ](/docs/reference/model/figure/#definitions-caption) function. In
the example below, we emphasize all captions:

    
    
    #show figure.caption: emph
    
    #figure(
      rect[Hello],
      caption: [I am emphasized!],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_XYhSBTt1dmjYR9A4n_aCgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

By using a [ ` where ` ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#definitions-
where) selector, we can scope such rules to specific kinds of figures. For
example, to position the caption above tables, but keep it below for all other
kinds of figures, we could write the following show-set rule:

    
    
    #show figure.where(
      kind: table
    ): set figure.caption(position: top)
    
    #figure(
      table(columns: 2)[A][B][C][D],
      caption: [I'm up here],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5FXY-vQKID4Q1FYsR4Ix9AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

figure  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  placement  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  scope  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  caption  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  kind  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  supplement  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  numbering  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
[ function ](/docs/reference/foundations/function/) ,  gap  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  outlined  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content of the figure. Often, an [ image
](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "image") .

###  ` placement `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ alignment
](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The figure's placement on the page.

  * ` none  ` : The figure stays in-flow exactly where it was specified like other content. 
  * ` auto  ` : The figure picks ` top ` or ` bottom ` depending on which is closer. 
  * ` top ` : The figure floats to the top of the page. 
  * ` bottom ` : The figure floats to the bottom of the page. 

The gap between the main flow content and the floating figure is controlled by
the [ ` clearance ` ](/docs/reference/layout/place/#parameters-clearance)
argument on the ` place ` function.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 200pt)
    
    = Introduction
    #figure(
      placement: bottom,
      caption: [A glacier],
      image("glacier.jpg", width: 60%),
    )
    #lorem(60)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/AvTTV4CvkxyZB8XrzNUT3wAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/AvTTV4CvkxyZB8XrzNUT3wAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` scope `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Relative to which containing scope the figure is placed.

Set this to ` "parent"  ` to create a full-width figure in a two-column
document.

Has no effect if ` placement ` is ` none  ` .

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  column  " ` |  Place into the current column.   
` "  parent  " ` |  Place relative to the parent, letting the content span over all columns.   
  
Default: ` "column"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(height: 250pt, columns: 2)
    
    = Introduction
    #figure(
      placement: bottom,
      scope: "parent",
      caption: [A glacier],
      image("glacier.jpg", width: 60%),
    )
    #lorem(60)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_zX5K9NHfd2mYYCeJmag7wAAAAAAAAAA.png)
![Preview](/assets/docs/_zX5K9NHfd2mYYCeJmag7wAAAAAAAAAB.png)

###  ` caption `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The figure's caption.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` kind `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The kind of figure this is.

All figures of the same kind share a common counter.

If set to ` auto  ` , the figure will try to automatically determine its kind
based on the type of its body. Automatically detected kinds are [ tables
](/docs/reference/model/table/) and [ code ](/docs/reference/text/raw/) . In
other cases, the inferred kind is that of an [ image
](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "image") .

Setting this to something other than ` auto  ` will override the automatic
detection. This can be useful if

  * you wish to create a custom figure type that is not an [ image ](/docs/reference/visualize/image/ "image") , a [ table ](/docs/reference/model/table/ "table") or [ code ](/docs/reference/text/raw/) , 
  * you want to force the figure to use a specific counter regardless of its content. 

You can set the kind to be an element function or a string. If you set it to
an element function other than [ ` table ` ](/docs/reference/model/table/) , [
` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/) or [ ` image `
](/docs/reference/visualize/image/) , you will need to manually specify the
figure's supplement.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #figure(
      circle(radius: 10pt),
      caption: [A curious atom.],
      kind: "atom",
      supplement: [Atom],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gnEhUtPlQLC9DmHftY4vzQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` supplement `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The figure's supplement.

If set to ` auto  ` , the figure will try to automatically determine the
correct supplement based on the ` kind ` and the active [ text language
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) . If you are using a custom
figure type, you will need to manually specify the supplement.

If a function is specified, it is passed the first descendant of the specified
` kind ` (typically, the figure's body) and should return content.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #figure(
      [The contents of my figure!],
      caption: [My custom figure],
      supplement: [Bar],
      kind: "foo",
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_ow3s-d4xSBN6VX-nVHVzQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` numbering `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ function
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to number the figure. Accepts a [ numbering pattern or function
](/docs/reference/model/numbering/) .

Default: ` "1"  `

###  ` gap `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The vertical gap between the body and caption.

Default: ` 0.65em  `

###  ` outlined `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the figure should appear in an [ ` outline `
](/docs/reference/model/outline/ "`outline`") of figures.

Default: ` true  `

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` caption ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

The caption of a figure. This element can be used in set and show rules to
customize the appearance of captions for all figures or figures of a specific
kind.

In addition to its ` pos ` and ` body ` , the ` caption ` also provides the
figure's ` kind ` , ` supplement ` , ` counter ` , and ` numbering ` as
fields. These parts can be used in [ ` where `
](/docs/reference/foundations/function/#definitions-where) selectors and show
rules to build a completely custom caption.

figure  .  caption  (

position  :  [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  separator  :
[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

    
    
    #show figure.caption: emph
    
    #figure(
      rect[Hello],
      caption: [A rectangle],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_9Rae3k-14dcb00bWW4ciAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` position `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The caption's position in the figure. Either ` top ` or ` bottom ` .

Default: ` bottom `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #show figure.where(
      kind: table
    ): set figure.caption(position: top)
    
    #figure(
      table(columns: 2)[A][B],
      caption: [I'm up here],
    )
    
    #figure(
      rect[Hi],
      caption: [I'm down here],
    )
    
    #figure(
      table(columns: 2)[A][B],
      caption: figure.caption(
        position: bottom,
        [I'm down here too!]
      )
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IdFKmiavSqMTEqn8wUXuUgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` separator `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The separator which will appear between the number and body.

If set to ` auto  ` , the separator will be adapted to the current [ language
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) and [ region
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-region) .

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set figure.caption(separator: [ --- ])
    
    #figure(
      rect[Hello],
      caption: [A rectangle],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/F47AgUphmXiVn12oCb_ECAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The caption's body.

Can be used alongside ` kind ` , ` supplement ` , ` counter ` , ` numbering `
, and ` location ` to completely customize the caption.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #show figure.caption: it => [
      #underline(it.body) |
      #it.supplement
      #context it.counter.display(it.numbering)
    ]
    
    #figure(
      rect[Hello],
      caption: [A rectangle],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/JxID--FAnIhAECKLMVFiVwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Emphasis  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/emph/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Footnote  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/footnote/)



# **docs/reference/model/quote.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Model ](/docs/reference/model/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Quote ](/docs/reference/model/quote/)

#  ` quote ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Displays a quote alongside an optional attribution.

##  Example

    
    
    Plato is often misquoted as the author of #quote[I know that I know
    nothing], however, this is a derivation form his original quote:
    
    #set quote(block: true)
    
    #quote(attribution: [Plato])[
      ... á¼Î¿Î¹ÎºÎ± Î³Î¿á¿¦Î½ ÏÎ¿ÏÏÎ¿Ï Î³Îµ ÏÎ¼Î¹ÎºÏá¿· ÏÎ¹Î½Î¹ Î±á½Ïá¿· ÏÎ¿ÏÏá¿³ ÏÎ¿ÏÏÏÎµÏÎ¿Ï Îµá¼¶Î½Î±Î¹, á½ÏÎ¹
      á¼ Î¼á½´ Î¿á¼¶Î´Î± Î¿á½Î´á½² Î¿á¼´Î¿Î¼Î±Î¹ Îµá¼°Î´Î­Î½Î±Î¹.
    ]
    #quote(attribution: [from the Henry Cary literal translation of 1897])[
      ... I seem, then, in just this little thing to be wiser than this man at
      any rate, that what I do not know I do not think I know either.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/SJpe1zkhE_liZRMF5cAy4gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

By default block quotes are padded left and right by ` 1em  ` , alignment and
padding can be controlled with show rules:

    
    
    #set quote(block: true)
    #show quote: set align(center)
    #show quote: set pad(x: 5em)
    
    #quote[
      You cannot pass... I am a servant of the Secret Fire, wielder of the
      flame of Anor. You cannot pass. The dark fire will not avail you,
      flame of UdÃ»n. Go back to the Shadow! You cannot pass.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QLNv4Pfp0zBKSvwxIfby-wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

quote  (

block  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  quotes  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  attribution  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` block `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether this is a block quote.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    An inline citation would look like
    this: #quote(
      attribution: [RenÃ© Descartes]
    )[
      cogito, ergo sum
    ], and a block equation like this:
    #quote(
      block: true,
      attribution: [JFK]
    )[
      Ich bin ein Berliner.
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bYLjzIuUOzRO9HYX7xT11wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` quotes `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether double quotes should be added around this quote.

The double quotes used are inferred from the ` quotes ` property on [
smartquote ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/ "smartquote") , which is
affected by the ` lang ` property on [ text ](/docs/reference/text/text/
"text") .

  * ` true  ` : Wrap this quote in double quotes. 
  * ` false  ` : Do not wrap this quote in double quotes. 
  * ` auto  ` : Infer whether to wrap this quote in double quotes based on the ` block ` property. If ` block ` is ` false  ` , double quotes are automatically added. 

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    
    Ein deutsch-sprechender Author
    zitiert unter umstÃ¤nden JFK:
    #quote[Ich bin ein Berliner.]
    
    #set text(lang: "en")
    
    And an english speaking one may
    translate the quote:
    #quote[I am a Berliner.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/3Qsm4wm5qgO3MH7h3rFICAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` attribution `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ label
](/docs/reference/foundations/label/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The attribution of this quote, usually the author or source. Can be a label
pointing to a bibliography entry or any content. By default only displayed for
block quotes, but can be changed using a ` show  ` rule.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #quote(attribution: [RenÃ© Descartes])[
      cogito, ergo sum
    ]
    
    #show quote.where(block: false): it => {
      ["] + h(0pt, weak: true) + it.body + h(0pt, weak: true) + ["]
      if it.attribution != none [ (#it.attribution)]
    }
    
    #quote(
      attribution: link("https://typst.app/home")[typst.com]
    )[
      Compose papers faster
    ]
    
    #set quote(block: true)
    
    #quote(attribution: <tolkien54>)[
      You cannot pass... I am a servant
      of the Secret Fire, wielder of the
      flame of Anor. You cannot pass. The
      dark fire will not avail you, flame
      of UdÃ»n. Go back to the Shadow! You
      cannot pass.
    ]
    
    #bibliography("works.bib", style: "apa")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bB0B3x32glSn_oATlkF6mQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The quote.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Paragraph Break  Previous page
](/docs/reference/model/parbreak/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Reference  Next page  ](/docs/reference/model/ref/)



# **docs/reference/symbols/sym.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ General ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)

#  sym

Named general symbols.

For example, ` #sym.arrow ` produces the â symbol. Within [ formulas
](/docs/reference/math/) , these symbols can be used without the ` #sym. `
prefix.

The ` d ` in an integral's ` dx ` can be written as ` $  dif  x  $  ` .
Outside math formulas, ` dif ` can be accessed as ` math.dif ` .

Click on a [ symbol ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) to copy it to the
clipboard.

![Search](/assets/icons/16-search-gray.svg)

  * wjoin  ` wj  `
  * zwj  ` zwj  `
  * zwnj  ` zwnj  `
  * zwsp  ` zws  `
  * â  ` lrm  `
  * â  ` rlm  `
  * â£  ` space  `
  * nbsp  ` space.  nobreak  `
  * â¯  ` space.  nobreak.  narrow  `
  * ensp  ` space.  en  `
  * emsp  ` space.  quad  `
  * â emsp  ` space.  third  `
  * Â¼emsp  ` space.  quarter  `
  * â emsp  ` space.  sixth  `
  * mmsp  ` space.  med  `
  * numsp  ` space.  fig  `
  * puncsp  ` space.  punct  `
  * thinsp  ` space.  thin  `
  * hairsp  ` space.  hair  `
  * (  ` paren.  l  `
  * â¦  ` paren.  l.  double  `
  * )  ` paren.  r  `
  * â¦  ` paren.  r.  double  `
  * â  ` paren.  t  `
  * â  ` paren.  b  `
  * {  ` brace.  l  `
  * â¦  ` brace.  l.  double  `
  * }  ` brace.  r  `
  * â¦  ` brace.  r.  double  `
  * â  ` brace.  t  `
  * â  ` brace.  b  `
  * [  ` bracket.  l  `
  * â¦  ` bracket.  l.  double  `
  * ]  ` bracket.  r  `
  * â§  ` bracket.  r.  double  `
  * â´  ` bracket.  t  `
  * âµ  ` bracket.  b  `
  * â²  ` shell.  l  `
  * â¬  ` shell.  l.  double  `
  * â³  ` shell.  r  `
  * â­  ` shell.  r.  double  `
  * â  ` shell.  t  `
  * â¡  ` shell.  b  `
  * |  ` bar.  v  `
  * â  ` bar.  v.  double  `
  * â¦  ` bar.  v.  triple  `
  * Â¦  ` bar.  v.  broken  `
  * â¦¶  ` bar.  v.  circle  `
  * â  ` bar.  h  `
  * â§  ` fence.  l  `
  * â§  ` fence.  l.  double  `
  * â§  ` fence.  r  `
  * â§  ` fence.  r.  double  `
  * â¦  ` fence.  dotted  `
  * â  ` angle  `
  * â¨  ` angle.  l  `
  * â§¼  ` angle.  l.  curly  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  l.  dot  `
  * ã  ` angle.  l.  double  `
  * â©  ` angle.  r  `
  * â§½  ` angle.  r.  curly  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  r.  dot  `
  * ã  ` angle.  r.  double  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  acute  `
  * â¡  ` angle.  arc  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  arc.  rev  `
  * â¦¦  ` angle.  oblique  `
  * â¦£  ` angle.  rev  `
  * â  ` angle.  right  `
  * â¯¾  ` angle.  right.  rev  `
  * â¾  ` angle.  right.  arc  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  right.  dot  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  right.  sq  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  s  `
  * â  ` angle.  spatial  `
  * â¢  ` angle.  spheric  `
  * â¦  ` angle.  spheric.  rev  `
  * â¦¡  ` angle.  spheric.  top  `
  * â  ` ceil.  l  `
  * â  ` ceil.  r  `
  * â  ` floor.  l  `
  * â  ` floor.  r  `
  * & ` amp  `
  * â   ` amp.  inv  `
  * â  ` ast.  op  `
  * *  ` ast.  basic  `
  * â  ` ast.  low  `
  * â  ` ast.  double  `
  * â  ` ast.  triple  `
  * ï¹¡  ` ast.  small  `
  * â  ` ast.  circle  `
  * â§  ` ast.  square  `
  * @  ` at  `
  * \  ` backslash  `
  * â¦¸  ` backslash.  circle  `
  * â§·  ` backslash.  not  `
  * â  ` co  `
  * :  ` colon  `
  * â·  ` colon.  double  `
  * â  ` colon.  eq  `
  * â©´  ` colon.  double.  eq  `
  * ,  ` comma  `
  * â  ` dagger  `
  * â¡  ` dagger.  double  `
  * â  ` dash.  en  `
  * â  ` dash.  em  `
  * â¸º  ` dash.  em.  two  `
  * â¸»  ` dash.  em.  three  `
  * â  ` dash.  fig  `
  * ã  ` dash.  wave  `
  * â¹  ` dash.  colon  `
  * â  ` dash.  circle  `
  * ã°  ` dash.  wave.  double  `
  * â  ` dot.  op  `
  * .  ` dot.  basic  `
  * Â·  ` dot.  c  `
  * â  ` dot.  circle  `
  * â¨  ` dot.  circle.  big  `
  * â¡  ` dot.  square  `
  * Â¨  ` dot.  double  `
  * â  ` dot.  triple  `
  * â  ` dot.  quad  `
  * !  ` excl  `
  * â¼  ` excl.  double  `
  * Â¡  ` excl.  inv  `
  * â  ` excl.  quest  `
  * ?  ` quest  `
  * â  ` quest.  double  `
  * â  ` quest.  excl  `
  * Â¿  ` quest.  inv  `
  * â½  ` interrobang  `
  * #  ` hash  `
  * â  ` hyph  `
  * \-  ` hyph.  minus  `
  * â  ` hyph.  nobreak  `
  * â§  ` hyph.  point  `
  * shy  ` hyph.  soft  `
  * %  ` percent  `
  * â°  ` permille  `
  * Â¶  ` pilcrow  `
  * â  ` pilcrow.  rev  `
  * Â§  ` section  `
  * ;  ` semi  `
  * â  ` semi.  rev  `
  * /  ` slash  `
  * â«½  ` slash.  double  `
  * â«»  ` slash.  triple  `
  * â§¸  ` slash.  big  `
  * â¯  ` dots.  h.  c  `
  * â¦  ` dots.  h  `
  * â®  ` dots.  v  `
  * â±  ` dots.  down  `
  * â°  ` dots.  up  `
  * â¼  ` tilde.  op  `
  * ~  ` tilde.  basic  `
  * â©ª  ` tilde.  dot  `
  * â  ` tilde.  eq  `
  * â  ` tilde.  eq.  not  `
  * â  ` tilde.  eq.  rev  `
  * â  ` tilde.  equiv  `
  * â  ` tilde.  equiv.  not  `
  * â  ` tilde.  nequiv  `
  * â  ` tilde.  not  `
  * â½  ` tilde.  rev  `
  * â  ` tilde.  rev.  equiv  `
  * â  ` tilde.  triple  `
  * Â´  ` acute  `
  * Ë  ` acute.  double  `
  * Ë  ` breve  `
  * â¸  ` caret  `
  * Ë  ` caron  `
  * ^  ` hat  `
  * Â¨  ` diaer  `
  * `  ` grave  `
  * Â¯  ` macron  `
  * "  ` quote.  double  `
  * '  ` quote.  single  `
  * â  ` quote.  l.  double  `
  * â  ` quote.  l.  single  `
  * â  ` quote.  r.  double  `
  * â  ` quote.  r.  single  `
  * Â«  ` quote.  angle.  l.  double  `
  * â¹  ` quote.  angle.  l.  single  `
  * Â»  ` quote.  angle.  r.  double  `
  * âº  ` quote.  angle.  r.  single  `
  * â  ` quote.  high.  double  `
  * â  ` quote.  high.  single  `
  * â  ` quote.  low.  double  `
  * â  ` quote.  low.  single  `
  * â²  ` prime  `
  * âµ  ` prime.  rev  `
  * â³  ` prime.  double  `
  * â¶  ` prime.  double.  rev  `
  * â´  ` prime.  triple  `
  * â·  ` prime.  triple.  rev  `
  * â  ` prime.  quad  `
  * \+  ` plus  `
  * â  ` plus.  circle  `
  * â´  ` plus.  circle.  arrow  `
  * â¨  ` plus.  circle.  big  `
  * â  ` plus.  dot  `
  * â§º  ` plus.  double  `
  * Â±  ` plus.  minus  `
  * ï¹¢  ` plus.  small  `
  * â  ` plus.  square  `
  * â¨¹  ` plus.  triangle  `
  * â§»  ` plus.  triple  `
  * â  ` minus  `
  * â  ` minus.  circle  `
  * â¸  ` minus.  dot  `
  * â  ` minus.  plus  `
  * â  ` minus.  square  `
  * â  ` minus.  tilde  `
  * â¨º  ` minus.  triangle  `
  * Ã·  ` div  `
  * â¨¸  ` div.  circle  `
  * Ã  ` times  `
  * â¨  ` times.  big  `
  * â  ` times.  circle  `
  * â¨  ` times.  circle.  big  `
  * â  ` times.  div  `
  * â  ` times.  three.  l  `
  * â  ` times.  three.  r  `
  * â  ` times.  l  `
  * â  ` times.  r  `
  * â  ` times.  square  `
  * â¨»  ` times.  triangle  `
  * â¶  ` ratio  `
  * =  ` eq  `
  * â  ` eq.  star  `
  * â  ` eq.  circle  `
  * â  ` eq.  colon  `
  * â  ` eq.  def  `
  * â  ` eq.  delta  `
  * â  ` eq.  equi  `
  * â  ` eq.  est  `
  * â  ` eq.  gt  `
  * â  ` eq.  lt  `
  * â  ` eq.  m  `
  * â  ` eq.  not  `
  * â  ` eq.  prec  `
  * â  ` eq.  quest  `
  * ï¹¦  ` eq.  small  `
  * â  ` eq.  succ  `
  * â¡  ` eq.  triple  `
  * â£  ` eq.  quad  `
  * > ` gt  `
  * â§  ` gt.  circle  `
  * â  ` gt.  dot  `
  * âª  ` gt.  approx  `
  * â«  ` gt.  double  `
  * â¥  ` gt.  eq  `
  * â©¾  ` gt.  eq.  slant  `
  * â  ` gt.  eq.  lt  `
  * â±  ` gt.  eq.  not  `
  * â§  ` gt.  equiv  `
  * â·  ` gt.  lt  `
  * â¹  ` gt.  lt.  not  `
  * âª  ` gt.  neq  `
  * âª  ` gt.  napprox  `
  * â©  ` gt.  nequiv  `
  * â¯  ` gt.  not  `
  * â§  ` gt.  ntilde  `
  * ï¹¥  ` gt.  small  `
  * â³  ` gt.  tilde  `
  * âµ  ` gt.  tilde.  not  `
  * â³  ` gt.  tri  `
  * âµ  ` gt.  tri.  eq  `
  * â­  ` gt.  tri.  eq.  not  `
  * â«  ` gt.  tri.  not  `
  * â  ` gt.  triple  `
  * â«¸  ` gt.  triple.  nested  `
  * < ` lt  `
  * â§  ` lt.  circle  `
  * â  ` lt.  dot  `
  * âª  ` lt.  approx  `
  * âª  ` lt.  double  `
  * â¤  ` lt.  eq  `
  * â©½  ` lt.  eq.  slant  `
  * â  ` lt.  eq.  gt  `
  * â°  ` lt.  eq.  not  `
  * â¦  ` lt.  equiv  `
  * â¶  ` lt.  gt  `
  * â¸  ` lt.  gt.  not  `
  * âª  ` lt.  neq  `
  * âª  ` lt.  napprox  `
  * â¨  ` lt.  nequiv  `
  * â®  ` lt.  not  `
  * â¦  ` lt.  ntilde  `
  * ï¹¤  ` lt.  small  `
  * â²  ` lt.  tilde  `
  * â´  ` lt.  tilde.  not  `
  * â²  ` lt.  tri  `
  * â´  ` lt.  tri.  eq  `
  * â¬  ` lt.  tri.  eq.  not  `
  * âª  ` lt.  tri.  not  `
  * â  ` lt.  triple  `
  * â«·  ` lt.  triple.  nested  `
  * â  ` approx  `
  * â  ` approx.  eq  `
  * â  ` approx.  not  `
  * âº  ` prec  `
  * âª·  ` prec.  approx  `
  * â¼  ` prec.  curly.  eq  `
  * â  ` prec.  curly.  eq.  not  `
  * âª»  ` prec.  double  `
  * âª¯  ` prec.  eq  `
  * âª³  ` prec.  equiv  `
  * âª¹  ` prec.  napprox  `
  * âª±  ` prec.  neq  `
  * âªµ  ` prec.  nequiv  `
  * â  ` prec.  not  `
  * â¨  ` prec.  ntilde  `
  * â¾  ` prec.  tilde  `
  * â»  ` succ  `
  * âª¸  ` succ.  approx  `
  * â½  ` succ.  curly.  eq  `
  * â¡  ` succ.  curly.  eq.  not  `
  * âª¼  ` succ.  double  `
  * âª°  ` succ.  eq  `
  * âª´  ` succ.  equiv  `
  * âªº  ` succ.  napprox  `
  * âª²  ` succ.  neq  `
  * âª¶  ` succ.  nequiv  `
  * â  ` succ.  not  `
  * â©  ` succ.  ntilde  `
  * â¿  ` succ.  tilde  `
  * â¡  ` equiv  `
  * â¢  ` equiv.  not  `
  * â  ` prop  `
  * â¶  ` original  `
  * â·  ` image  `
  * â  ` emptyset  `
  * â¦³  ` emptyset.  arrow.  r  `
  * â¦´  ` emptyset.  arrow.  l  `
  * â¦±  ` emptyset.  bar  `
  * â¦²  ` emptyset.  circle  `
  * â¦°  ` emptyset.  rev  `
  * â  ` nothing  `
  * â¦³  ` nothing.  arrow.  r  `
  * â¦´  ` nothing.  arrow.  l  `
  * â¦±  ` nothing.  bar  `
  * â¦²  ` nothing.  circle  `
  * â¦°  ` nothing.  rev  `
  * â  ` without  `
  * â  ` complement  `
  * â  ` in  `
  * â  ` in.  not  `
  * â  ` in.  rev  `
  * â  ` in.  rev.  not  `
  * â  ` in.  rev.  small  `
  * â  ` in.  small  `
  * â  ` subset  `
  * âª½  ` subset.  dot  `
  * â  ` subset.  double  `
  * â  ` subset.  eq  `
  * â  ` subset.  eq.  not  `
  * â  ` subset.  eq.  sq  `
  * â¢  ` subset.  eq.  sq.  not  `
  * â  ` subset.  neq  `
  * â  ` subset.  not  `
  * â  ` subset.  sq  `
  * â¤  ` subset.  sq.  neq  `
  * â  ` supset  `
  * âª¾  ` supset.  dot  `
  * â  ` supset.  double  `
  * â  ` supset.  eq  `
  * â  ` supset.  eq.  not  `
  * â  ` supset.  eq.  sq  `
  * â£  ` supset.  eq.  sq.  not  `
  * â  ` supset.  neq  `
  * â  ` supset.  not  `
  * â  ` supset.  sq  `
  * â¥  ` supset.  sq.  neq  `
  * âª  ` union  `
  * â  ` union.  arrow  `
  * â  ` union.  big  `
  * â  ` union.  dot  `
  * â¨  ` union.  dot.  big  `
  * â  ` union.  double  `
  * â©  ` union.  minus  `
  * â©  ` union.  or  `
  * â  ` union.  plus  `
  * â¨  ` union.  plus.  big  `
  * â  ` union.  sq  `
  * â¨  ` union.  sq.  big  `
  * â©  ` union.  sq.  double  `
  * â©  ` sect  `
  * â©  ` sect.  and  `
  * â  ` sect.  big  `
  * â©  ` sect.  dot  `
  * â  ` sect.  double  `
  * â  ` sect.  sq  `
  * â¨  ` sect.  sq.  big  `
  * â©  ` sect.  sq.  double  `
  * â  ` infinity  `
  * â§  ` infinity.  bar  `
  * â§  ` infinity.  incomplete  `
  * â§  ` infinity.  tie  `
  * â  ` oo  `
  * â  ` diff  `
  * â  ` partial  `
  * â  ` gradient  `
  * â  ` nabla  `
  * â  ` sum  `
  * â¨  ` sum.  integral  `
  * â  ` product  `
  * â  ` product.  co  `
  * â«  ` integral  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  arrow.  hook  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  ccw  `
  * â®  ` integral.  cont  `
  * â³  ` integral.  cont.  ccw  `
  * â²  ` integral.  cont.  cw  `
  * â±  ` integral.  cw  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  dash  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  dash.  double  `
  * â¬  ` integral.  double  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  quad  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  sect  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  slash  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  square  `
  * â¯  ` integral.  surf  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  times  `
  * â­  ` integral.  triple  `
  * â¨  ` integral.  union  `
  * â°  ` integral.  vol  `
  * â  ` laplace  `
  * â  ` forall  `
  * â  ` exists  `
  * â  ` exists.  not  `
  * â¤  ` top  `
  * â¥  ` bot  `
  * Â¬  ` not  `
  * â§  ` and  `
  * â  ` and.  big  `
  * â  ` and.  curly  `
  * â  ` and.  dot  `
  * â©  ` and.  double  `
  * â¨  ` or  `
  * â  ` or.  big  `
  * â  ` or.  curly  `
  * â  ` or.  dot  `
  * â©  ` or.  double  `
  * â  ` xor  `
  * â¨  ` xor.  big  `
  * â§  ` models  `
  * â©  ` forces  `
  * â®  ` forces.  not  `
  * â´  ` therefore  `
  * âµ  ` because  `
  * â  ` qed  `
  * â  ` compose  `
  * â  ` convolve  `
  * â¸  ` multimap  `
  * â§  ` multimap.  double  `
  * â§¾  ` tiny  `
  * â§¿  ` miny  `
  * â£  ` divides  `
  * â¤  ` divides.  not  `
  * â  ` wreath  `
  * â¥  ` parallel  `
  * â«²  ` parallel.  struck  `
  * â¦·  ` parallel.  circle  `
  * â  ` parallel.  eq  `
  * â©¨  ` parallel.  equiv  `
  * â¦  ` parallel.  not  `
  * â§£  ` parallel.  slanted.  eq  `
  * â§¤  ` parallel.  slanted.  eq.  tilde  `
  * â§¥  ` parallel.  slanted.  equiv  `
  * â«³  ` parallel.  tilde  `
  * â  ` perp  `
  * â¦¹  ` perp.  circle  `
  * â  ` diameter  `
  * â¨  ` join  `
  * â  ` join.  r  `
  * â  ` join.  l  `
  * â  ` join.  l.  r  `
  * Â°  ` degree  `
  * â  ` degree.  c  `
  * â  ` degree.  f  `
  * â¨³  ` smash  `
  * â¿  ` bitcoin  `
  * $  ` dollar  `
  * â¬  ` euro  `
  * â£  ` franc  `
  * âº  ` lira  `
  * â±  ` peso  `
  * Â£  ` pound  `
  * â½  ` ruble  `
  * â¹  ` rupee  `
  * â©  ` won  `
  * Â¥  ` yen  `
  * â  ` ballot  `
  * â  ` ballot.  cross  `
  * â  ` ballot.  check  `
  * ð¹  ` ballot.  check.  heavy  `
  * â  ` checkmark  `
  * ð¸  ` checkmark.  light  `
  * â  ` checkmark.  heavy  `
  * â  ` crossmark  `
  * â  ` crossmark.  heavy  `
  * â¦  ` floral  `
  * â  ` floral.  l  `
  * â§  ` floral.  r  `
  * â»  ` refmark  `
  * Â©  ` copyright  `
  * â  ` copyright.  sound  `
  * ð¯  ` copyleft  `
  * â¢  ` trademark  `
  * Â®  ` trademark.  registered  `
  * â  ` trademark.  service  `
  * â  ` maltese  `
  * â£  ` suit.  club.  filled  `
  * â§  ` suit.  club.  stroked  `
  * â¦  ` suit.  diamond.  filled  `
  * â¢  ` suit.  diamond.  stroked  `
  * â¥  ` suit.  heart.  filled  `
  * â¡  ` suit.  heart.  stroked  `
  * â  ` suit.  spade.  filled  `
  * â¤  ` suit.  spade.  stroked  `
  * ð  ` note.  up  `
  * ð  ` note.  down  `
  * ð   ` note.  whole  `
  * ð   ` note.  half  `
  * ð   ` note.  quarter  `
  * â©  ` note.  quarter.  alt  `
  * ð  ` note.  eighth  `
  * âª  ` note.  eighth.  alt  `
  * â«  ` note.  eighth.  beamed  `
  * ð ¡  ` note.  sixteenth  `
  * â¬  ` note.  sixteenth.  beamed  `
  * ð  ` note.  grace  `
  * ð  ` note.  grace.  slash  `
  * ð»  ` rest.  whole  `
  * ðº  ` rest.  multiple  `
  * ð©  ` rest.  multiple.  measure  `
  * ð¼  ` rest.  half  `
  * ð½  ` rest.  quarter  `
  * ð¾  ` rest.  eighth  `
  * ð¿  ` rest.  sixteenth  `
  * â®  ` natural  `
  * ð®  ` natural.  t  `
  * ð¯  ` natural.  b  `
  * â­  ` flat  `
  * ð¬  ` flat.  t  `
  * ð­  ` flat.  b  `
  * ð«  ` flat.  double  `
  * ð³  ` flat.  quarter  `
  * â¯  ` sharp  `
  * ð°  ` sharp.  t  `
  * ð±  ` sharp.  b  `
  * ðª  ` sharp.  double  `
  * ð²  ` sharp.  quarter  `
  * â¢  ` bullet  `
  * â  ` circle.  stroked  `
  * â  ` circle.  stroked.  tiny  `
  * â¬  ` circle.  stroked.  small  `
  * â¯  ` circle.  stroked.  big  `
  * â  ` circle.  filled  `
  * â¦  ` circle.  filled.  tiny  `
  * â  ` circle.  filled.  small  `
  * â¬¤  ` circle.  filled.  big  `
  * â  ` circle.  dotted  `
  * â  ` circle.  nested  `
  * â¬­  ` ellipse.  stroked.  h  `
  * â¬¯  ` ellipse.  stroked.  v  `
  * â¬¬  ` ellipse.  filled.  h  `
  * â¬®  ` ellipse.  filled.  v  `
  * â³  ` triangle.  stroked.  t  `
  * â½  ` triangle.  stroked.  b  `
  * â·  ` triangle.  stroked.  r  `
  * â  ` triangle.  stroked.  l  `
  * âº  ` triangle.  stroked.  bl  `
  * â¿  ` triangle.  stroked.  br  `
  * â¸  ` triangle.  stroked.  tl  `
  * â¹  ` triangle.  stroked.  tr  `
  * âµ  ` triangle.  stroked.  small.  t  `
  * â¿  ` triangle.  stroked.  small.  b  `
  * â¹  ` triangle.  stroked.  small.  r  `
  * â  ` triangle.  stroked.  small.  l  `
  * ð  ` triangle.  stroked.  rounded  `
  * â  ` triangle.  stroked.  nested  `
  * â¬  ` triangle.  stroked.  dot  `
  * â²  ` triangle.  filled.  t  `
  * â¼  ` triangle.  filled.  b  `
  * â¶  ` triangle.  filled.  r  `
  * â  ` triangle.  filled.  l  `
  * â£  ` triangle.  filled.  bl  `
  * â¢  ` triangle.  filled.  br  `
  * â¤  ` triangle.  filled.  tl  `
  * â¥  ` triangle.  filled.  tr  `
  * â´  ` triangle.  filled.  small.  t  `
  * â¾  ` triangle.  filled.  small.  b  `
  * â¸  ` triangle.  filled.  small.  r  `
  * â  ` triangle.  filled.  small.  l  `
  * â¡  ` square.  stroked  `
  * â«  ` square.  stroked.  tiny  `
  * â½  ` square.  stroked.  small  `
  * â»  ` square.  stroked.  medium  `
  * â¬  ` square.  stroked.  big  `
  * â¬  ` square.  stroked.  dotted  `
  * â¢  ` square.  stroked.  rounded  `
  * â  ` square.  filled  `
  * âª  ` square.  filled.  tiny  `
  * â¾  ` square.  filled.  small  `
  * â¼  ` square.  filled.  medium  `
  * â¬  ` square.  filled.  big  `
  * â­  ` rect.  stroked.  h  `
  * â¯  ` rect.  stroked.  v  `
  * â¬  ` rect.  filled.  h  `
  * â®  ` rect.  filled.  v  `
  * â¬  ` penta.  stroked  `
  * â¬  ` penta.  filled  `
  * â¬¡  ` hexa.  stroked  `
  * â¬¢  ` hexa.  filled  `
  * â  ` diamond.  stroked  `
  * â  ` diamond.  stroked.  small  `
  * â¬¦  ` diamond.  stroked.  medium  `
  * â  ` diamond.  stroked.  dot  `
  * â  ` diamond.  filled  `
  * â¬¥  ` diamond.  filled.  medium  `
  * â¬©  ` diamond.  filled.  small  `
  * â  ` lozenge.  stroked  `
  * â¬«  ` lozenge.  stroked.  small  `
  * â¬¨  ` lozenge.  stroked.  medium  `
  * â§«  ` lozenge.  filled  `
  * â¬ª  ` lozenge.  filled.  small  `
  * â¬§  ` lozenge.  filled.  medium  `
  * â±  ` parallelogram.  stroked  `
  * â°  ` parallelogram.  filled  `
  * â  ` star.  op  `
  * â  ` star.  stroked  `
  * â  ` star.  filled  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r  `
  * â¼  ` arrow.  r.  long.  bar  `
  * â¦  ` arrow.  r.  bar  `
  * â¤·  ` arrow.  r.  curve  `
  * â®  ` arrow.  r.  turn  `
  * â¢  ` arrow.  r.  dashed  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  r.  dotted  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r.  double  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  r.  double.  bar  `
  * â¹  ` arrow.  r.  double.  long  `
  * â¾  ` arrow.  r.  double.  long.  bar  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r.  double.  not  `
  * â¡  ` arrow.  r.  filled  `
  * âª  ` arrow.  r.  hook  `
  * â¶  ` arrow.  r.  long  `
  * â¿  ` arrow.  r.  long.  squiggly  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  r.  loop  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r.  not  `
  * â­  ` arrow.  r.  quad  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r.  squiggly  `
  * â¥  ` arrow.  r.  stop  `
  * â¨  ` arrow.  r.  stroked  `
  * â£  ` arrow.  r.  tail  `
  * â¥²  ` arrow.  r.  tilde  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r.  triple  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  r.  twohead.  bar  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r.  twohead  `
  * â  ` arrow.  r.  wave  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  l.  bar  `
  * â¤¶  ` arrow.  l.  curve  `
  * â®  ` arrow.  l.  turn  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  dashed  `
  * â¬¸  ` arrow.  l.  dotted  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  double  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  l.  double.  bar  `
  * â¸  ` arrow.  l.  double.  long  `
  * â½  ` arrow.  l.  double.  long.  bar  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  double.  not  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  l.  filled  `
  * â©  ` arrow.  l.  hook  `
  * âµ  ` arrow.  l.  long  `
  * â»  ` arrow.  l.  long.  bar  `
  * â¬³  ` arrow.  l.  long.  squiggly  `
  * â«  ` arrow.  l.  loop  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  not  `
  * â­  ` arrow.  l.  quad  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  squiggly  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  l.  stop  `
  * â¦  ` arrow.  l.  stroked  `
  * â¢  ` arrow.  l.  tail  `
  * â­  ` arrow.  l.  tilde  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  triple  `
  * â¬¶  ` arrow.  l.  twohead.  bar  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  twohead  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  wave  `
  * â  ` arrow.  t  `
  * â¥  ` arrow.  t.  bar  `
  * â¤´  ` arrow.  t.  curve  `
  * â®  ` arrow.  t.  turn  `
  * â¡  ` arrow.  t.  dashed  `
  * â  ` arrow.  t.  double  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  t.  filled  `
  * â°  ` arrow.  t.  quad  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  t.  stop  `
  * â§  ` arrow.  t.  stroked  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  t.  triple  `
  * â  ` arrow.  t.  twohead  `
  * â  ` arrow.  b  `
  * â§  ` arrow.  b.  bar  `
  * â¤µ  ` arrow.  b.  curve  `
  * â®  ` arrow.  b.  turn  `
  * â£  ` arrow.  b.  dashed  `
  * â  ` arrow.  b.  double  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  b.  filled  `
  * â±  ` arrow.  b.  quad  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  b.  stop  `
  * â©  ` arrow.  b.  stroked  `
  * â¤  ` arrow.  b.  triple  `
  * â¡  ` arrow.  b.  twohead  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  r  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  r.  double  `
  * âº  ` arrow.  l.  r.  double.  long  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  r.  double.  not  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  l.  r.  filled  `
  * â·  ` arrow.  l.  r.  long  `
  * â®  ` arrow.  l.  r.  not  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  l.  r.  stroked  `
  * â­  ` arrow.  l.  r.  wave  `
  * â  ` arrow.  t.  b  `
  * â  ` arrow.  t.  b.  double  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  t.  b.  filled  `
  * â³  ` arrow.  t.  b.  stroked  `
  * â  ` arrow.  tr  `
  * â  ` arrow.  tr.  double  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  tr.  filled  `
  * â¤¤  ` arrow.  tr.  hook  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  tr.  stroked  `
  * â  ` arrow.  br  `
  * â  ` arrow.  br.  double  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  br.  filled  `
  * â¤¥  ` arrow.  br.  hook  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  br.  stroked  `
  * â  ` arrow.  tl  `
  * â  ` arrow.  tl.  double  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  tl.  filled  `
  * â¤£  ` arrow.  tl.  hook  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  tl.  stroked  `
  * â  ` arrow.  bl  `
  * â  ` arrow.  bl.  double  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  bl.  filled  `
  * â¤¦  ` arrow.  bl.  hook  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  bl.  stroked  `
  * â¤¡  ` arrow.  tl.  br  `
  * â¤¢  ` arrow.  tr.  bl  `
  * âº  ` arrow.  ccw  `
  * â¶  ` arrow.  ccw.  half  `
  * â»  ` arrow.  cw  `
  * â·  ` arrow.  cw.  half  `
  * â¯  ` arrow.  zigzag  `
  * â  ` arrows.  rr  `
  * â  ` arrows.  ll  `
  * â  ` arrows.  tt  `
  * â  ` arrows.  bb  `
  * â  ` arrows.  lr  `
  * â¹  ` arrows.  lr.  stop  `
  * â  ` arrows.  rl  `
  * â  ` arrows.  tb  `
  * âµ  ` arrows.  bt  `
  * â¶  ` arrows.  rrr  `
  * â¬±  ` arrows.  lll  `
  * â  ` arrowhead.  t  `
  * â  ` arrowhead.  b  `
  * â  ` harpoon.  rt  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  rt.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  rt.  stop  `
  * â  ` harpoon.  rb  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  rb.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  rb.  stop  `
  * â¼  ` harpoon.  lt  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lt.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lt.  stop  `
  * â½  ` harpoon.  lb  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lb.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lb.  stop  `
  * â¿  ` harpoon.  tl  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tl.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tl.  stop  `
  * â¾  ` harpoon.  tr  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tr.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tr.  stop  `
  * â  ` harpoon.  bl  `
  * â¥¡  ` harpoon.  bl.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  bl.  stop  `
  * â  ` harpoon.  br  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  br.  bar  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  br.  stop  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lt.  rt  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lb.  rb  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lb.  rt  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  lt.  rb  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tl.  bl  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tr.  br  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tl.  br  `
  * â¥  ` harpoon.  tr.  bl  `
  * â¥¤  ` harpoons.  rtrb  `
  * â¥¥  ` harpoons.  blbr  `
  * â¥¯  ` harpoons.  bltr  `
  * â¥§  ` harpoons.  lbrb  `
  * â¥¢  ` harpoons.  ltlb  `
  * â  ` harpoons.  ltrb  `
  * â¥¦  ` harpoons.  ltrt  `
  * â¥©  ` harpoons.  rblb  `
  * â  ` harpoons.  rtlb  `
  * â¥¨  ` harpoons.  rtlt  `
  * â¥®  ` harpoons.  tlbr  `
  * â¥£  ` harpoons.  tltr  `
  * â¢  ` tack.  r  `
  * â¬  ` tack.  r.  not  `
  * â  ` tack.  r.  long  `
  * â¦  ` tack.  r.  short  `
  * â¨  ` tack.  r.  double  `
  * â­  ` tack.  r.  double.  not  `
  * â£  ` tack.  l  `
  * â  ` tack.  l.  long  `
  * â«  ` tack.  l.  short  `
  * â«¤  ` tack.  l.  double  `
  * â¥  ` tack.  t  `
  * â  ` tack.  t.  big  `
  * â««  ` tack.  t.  double  `
  * â«  ` tack.  t.  short  `
  * â¤  ` tack.  b  `
  * â  ` tack.  b.  big  `
  * â«ª  ` tack.  b.  double  `
  * â«  ` tack.  b.  short  `
  * â  ` tack.  l.  r  `
  * Î±  ` alpha  `
  * Î²  ` beta  `
  * Ï  ` beta.  alt  `
  * Ï  ` chi  `
  * Î´  ` delta  `
  * Îµ  ` epsilon  `
  * Ïµ  ` epsilon.  alt  `
  * Î·  ` eta  `
  * Î³  ` gamma  `
  * Î¹  ` iota  `
  * Ï  ` kai  `
  * Îº  ` kappa  `
  * Ï°  ` kappa.  alt  `
  * Î»  ` lambda  `
  * Î¼  ` mu  `
  * Î½  ` nu  `
  * â¦  ` ohm  `
  * â§  ` ohm.  inv  `
  * Ï  ` omega  `
  * Î¿  ` omicron  `
  * Ï  ` phi  `
  * Ï  ` phi.  alt  `
  * Ï  ` pi  `
  * Ï  ` pi.  alt  `
  * Ï  ` psi  `
  * Ï  ` rho  `
  * Ï±  ` rho.  alt  `
  * Ï  ` sigma  `
  * Ï  ` sigma.  alt  `
  * Ï  ` tau  `
  * Î¸  ` theta  `
  * Ï  ` theta.  alt  `
  * Ï  ` upsilon  `
  * Î¾  ` xi  `
  * Î¶  ` zeta  `
  * Î  ` Alpha  `
  * Î  ` Beta  `
  * Î§  ` Chi  `
  * Î  ` Delta  `
  * Î  ` Epsilon  `
  * Î  ` Eta  `
  * Î  ` Gamma  `
  * Î  ` Iota  `
  * Ï  ` Kai  `
  * Î  ` Kappa  `
  * Î  ` Lambda  `
  * Î  ` Mu  `
  * Î  ` Nu  `
  * Î©  ` Omega  `
  * Î  ` Omicron  `
  * Î¦  ` Phi  `
  * Î  ` Pi  `
  * Î¨  ` Psi  `
  * Î¡  ` Rho  `
  * Î£  ` Sigma  `
  * Î¤  ` Tau  `
  * Î  ` Theta  `
  * Î¥  ` Upsilon  `
  * Î  ` Xi  `
  * Î  ` Zeta  `
  * ×  ` aleph  `
  * ×  ` alef  `
  * ×  ` beth  `
  * ×  ` bet  `
  * ×  ` gimmel  `
  * ×  ` gimel  `
  * ×  ` daleth  `
  * ×  ` dalet  `
  * ×©  ` shin  `
  * ð¸  ` AA  `
  * ð¹  ` BB  `
  * â  ` CC  `
  * ð»  ` DD  `
  * ð¼  ` EE  `
  * ð½  ` FF  `
  * ð¾  ` GG  `
  * â  ` HH  `
  * ð  ` II  `
  * ð  ` JJ  `
  * ð  ` KK  `
  * ð  ` LL  `
  * ð  ` MM  `
  * â  ` NN  `
  * ð  ` OO  `
  * â  ` PP  `
  * â  ` QQ  `
  * â  ` RR  `
  * ð  ` SS  `
  * ð  ` TT  `
  * ð  ` UU  `
  * ð  ` VV  `
  * ð  ` WW  `
  * ð  ` XX  `
  * ð  ` YY  `
  * â¤  ` ZZ  `
  * â  ` ell  `
  * â  ` planck  `
  * â  ` planck.  reduce  `
  * â«  ` angstrom  `
  * âª  ` kelvin  `
  * â  ` Re  `
  * â  ` Im  `
  * ð¤  ` dotless.  i  `
  * ð¥  ` dotless.  j  `

###

Name: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Escape:  ` \u  {  } ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Shorthand: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Accent:  ![](/assets/icons/16-close.svg)

LaTeX: ` `

####  Variants

* [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Symbols  Previous page  ](/docs/reference/symbols/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Emoji  Next page  ](/docs/reference/symbols/emoji/)



# **docs/reference/symbols/symbol.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Symbol ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/)

#  symbol

A Unicode symbol.

Typst defines common symbols so that they can easily be written with standard
keyboards. The symbols are defined in modules, from which they can be accessed
using [ field access notation ](/docs/reference/scripting/#fields) :

  * General symbols are defined in the [ ` sym ` module ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/)
  * Emoji are defined in the [ ` emoji ` module ](/docs/reference/symbols/emoji/)

Moreover, you can define custom symbols with this type's constructor function.

    
    
    #sym.arrow.r \
    #sym.gt.eq.not \
    $gt.eq.not$ \
    #emoji.face.halo
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VU7JCTNOvXZ0YxOKfFCHhgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

Many symbols have different variants, which can be selected by appending the
modifiers with dot notation. The order of the modifiers is not relevant. Visit
the documentation pages of the symbol modules and click on a symbol to see its
available variants.

    
    
    $arrow.l$ \
    $arrow.r$ \
    $arrow.t.quad$
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6bpO4zHphIuAdD1km_qbDAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Constructor

Question mark

If a type has a constructor, you can call it like a function to create a new
value of the type.

Create a custom symbol with modifiers.

symbol  (

..  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

)  -> [ symbol ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/)

    
    
    #let envelope = symbol(
      "ð",
      ("stamped", "ð"),
      ("stamped.pen", "ð"),
      ("lightning", "ð"),
      ("fly", "ð"),
    )
    
    #envelope
    #envelope.stamped
    #envelope.stamped.pen
    #envelope.lightning
    #envelope.fly
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KbY7ot9pSdzC8G6YXvE_VAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

####  ` variants `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Variadic

Question mark

Variadic parameters can be specified multiple times.

The variants of the symbol.

Can be a just a string consisting of a single character for the modifierless
variant or an array with two strings specifying the modifiers and the symbol.
Individual modifiers should be separated by dots. When displaying a symbol,
Typst selects the first from the variants that have all attached modifiers and
the minimum number of other modifiers.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Emoji  Previous page
](/docs/reference/symbols/emoji/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Layout  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/)



# **docs/reference/symbols/emoji.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Symbols ](/docs/reference/symbols/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Emoji ](/docs/reference/symbols/emoji/)

#  emoji

Named emoji.

For example, ` #emoji.face ` produces the ð emoji. If you frequently use
certain emojis, you can also import them from the ` emoji ` module ( ` #
import  emoji  :  face ` ) to use them without the ` #emoji. ` prefix.

Click on a [ symbol ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/) to copy it to the
clipboard.

![Search](/assets/icons/16-search-gray.svg)

  * ð§®  ` abacus  `
  * ð¤  ` abc  `
  * ð¡  ` abcd  `
  * ð  ` ABCD  `
  * ðª  ` accordion  `
  * â  ` aesculapius  `
  * â  ` airplane  `
  * ð¬  ` airplane.  landing  `
  * ð©  ` airplane.  small  `
  * ð«  ` airplane.  takeoff  `
  * â  ` alembic  `
  * ð½  ` alien  `
  * ð¾  ` alien.  monster  `
  * ð  ` ambulance  `
  * ðº  ` amphora  `
  * â  ` anchor  `
  * ð¢  ` anger  `
  * ð  ` ant  `
  * ð  ` apple.  green  `
  * ð  ` apple.  red  `
  * ð¦¾  ` arm.  mech  `
  * ðª  ` arm.  muscle  `
  * ð¤³  ` arm.  selfie  `
  * â¡  ` arrow.  r.  filled  `
  * âª  ` arrow.  r.  hook  `
  * ð  ` arrow.  r.  soon  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  l.  filled  `
  * â©  ` arrow.  l.  hook  `
  * ð  ` arrow.  l.  back  `
  * ð  ` arrow.  l.  end  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  t.  filled  `
  * â¤´  ` arrow.  t.  curve  `
  * ð  ` arrow.  t.  top  `
  * â¬  ` arrow.  b.  filled  `
  * â¤µ  ` arrow.  b.  curve  `
  * â  ` arrow.  l.  r  `
  * ð  ` arrow.  l.  r.  on  `
  * â  ` arrow.  t.  b  `
  * â  ` arrow.  bl  `
  * â  ` arrow.  br  `
  * â  ` arrow.  tl  `
  * â  ` arrow.  tr  `
  * ð  ` arrows.  cycle  `
  * *  ` ast  `
  * â³  ` ast.  box  `
  * ð§  ` atm  `
  * â  ` atom  `
  * ð  ` aubergine  `
  * ð¥  ` avocado  `
  * ðª  ` axe  `
  * ð¶  ` baby  `
  * ð¼  ` baby.  angel  `
  * ð¼  ` baby.  box  `
  * ð¼  ` babybottle  `
  * ð  ` backpack  `
  * ð¥  ` bacon  `
  * ð¦¡  ` badger  `
  * ð¸  ` badminton  `
  * ð¥¯  ` bagel  `
  * ð  ` baggageclaim  `
  * ð¥  ` baguette  `
  * ð  ` balloon  `
  * â  ` ballot.  check  `
  * ð³  ` ballotbox  `
  * ð  ` banana  `
  * ðª  ` banjo  `
  * ð¦  ` bank  `
  * ð  ` barberpole  `
  * â¾  ` baseball  `
  * ð§¢  ` basecap  `
  * ð§º  ` basket  `
  * â¹  ` basketball  `
  * ð  ` basketball.  ball  `
  * ð¦  ` bat  `
  * ð  ` bathtub  `
  * ð  ` bathtub.  foam  `
  * ð  ` battery  `
  * ðª«  ` battery.  low  `
  * ð  ` beach.  palm  `
  * ð  ` beach.  umbrella  `
  * ð¿  ` beads  `
  * ð«  ` beans  `
  * ð»  ` bear  `
  * ð¦«  ` beaver  `
  * ð  ` bed  `
  * ð  ` bed.  person  `
  * ð  ` bee  `
  * ðº  ` beer  `
  * ð»  ` beer.  clink  `
  * ð«  ` beet  `
  * ðª²  ` beetle  `
  * ð  ` beetle.  lady  `
  * ð  ` bell  `
  * ð  ` bell.  ding  `
  * ð  ` bell.  not  `
  * ð±  ` bento  `
  * ð´  ` bicyclist  `
  * ðµ  ` bicyclist.  mountain  `
  * ð²  ` bike  `
  * ð³  ` bike.  not  `
  * ð  ` bikini  `
  * ð±  ` billiards  `
  * ð  ` bin  `
  * â£  ` biohazard  `
  * ð¦  ` bird  `
  * ð¦¬  ` bison  `
  * ð©¸  ` blood  `
  * ð  ` blouse  `
  * ð¡  ` blowfish  `
  * ð«  ` blueberries  `
  * ð  ` boar  `
  * âµ  ` boat.  sail  `
  * ð£  ` boat.  row  `
  * ð¥  ` boat.  motor  `
  * ð¤  ` boat.  speed  `
  * ð¶  ` boat.  canoe  `
  * ð©  ` bolt  `
  * ð£  ` bomb  `
  * ð¦´  ` bone  `
  * ð  ` book.  red  `
  * ð  ` book.  blue  `
  * ð  ` book.  green  `
  * ð  ` book.  orange  `
  * ð  ` book.  spiral  `
  * ð  ` book.  open  `
  * ð  ` bookmark  `
  * ð  ` books  `
  * ðª  ` boomerang  `
  * ð  ` bordercontrol  `
  * ð  ` bouquet  `
  * ð¹  ` bow  `
  * ð¥£  ` bowl.  spoon  `
  * ð  ` bowl.  steam  `
  * ð³  ` bowling  `
  * ð¥  ` boxing  `
  * ð¦  ` boy  `
  * ð§  ` brain  `
  * ð  ` bread  `
  * ð§±  ` brick  `
  * ð°  ` bride  `
  * ð  ` bridge.  fog  `
  * ð  ` bridge.  night  `
  * ð¼  ` briefcase  `
  * ð©²  ` briefs  `
  * ð  ` brightness.  high  `
  * ð  ` brightness.  low  `
  * ð¥¦  ` broccoli  `
  * ð§¹  ` broom  `
  * ð  ` brush  `
  * ð¬  ` bubble.  speech.  r  `
  * ð¨  ` bubble.  speech.  l  `
  * ð­  ` bubble.  thought  `
  * ð¯  ` bubble.  anger.  r  `
  * ð«§  ` bubbles  `
  * ð§  ` bubbletea  `
  * ðª£  ` bucket  `
  * ð  ` buffalo.  water  `
  * ð  ` bug  `
  * ð·  ` builder  `
  * ð  ` burger  `
  * ð¯  ` burrito  `
  * ð  ` bus  `
  * ð  ` bus.  front  `
  * ð  ` bus.  small  `
  * ð  ` bus.  stop  `
  * ð  ` bus.  trolley  `
  * ð§  ` butter  `
  * ð¦  ` butterfly  `
  * ð²  ` button  `
  * ð³  ` button.  alt  `
  * ð  ` button.  radio  `
  * ð  ` cabinet.  file  `
  * ð  ` cablecar  `
  * ð¡  ` cablecar.  small  `
  * ðµ  ` cactus  `
  * ð  ` cake  `
  * ð¥  ` cake.  fish  `
  * ð¥®  ` cake.  moon  `
  * ð°  ` cake.  slice  `
  * ð  ` calendar  `
  * ð  ` calendar.  spiral  `
  * ð  ` calendar.  tearoff  `
  * ð«  ` camel  `
  * ðª  ` camel.  dromedar  `
  * ð·  ` camera  `
  * ð¸  ` camera.  flash  `
  * ð¥  ` camera.  movie  `
  * ð¦  ` camera.  movie.  box  `
  * ð¹  ` camera.  video  `
  * ð  ` camping  `
  * ð¥«  ` can  `
  * ð¯  ` candle  `
  * ð¬  ` candy  `
  * ð¦¯  ` cane  `
  * ð  ` car  `
  * ð  ` car.  front  `
  * ð»  ` car.  pickup  `
  * ð  ` car.  police  `
  * ð  ` car.  police.  front  `
  * ð  ` car.  racing  `
  * ðº  ` car.  rickshaw  `
  * ð  ` car.  suv  `
  * ð³  ` card.  credit  `
  * ðªª  ` card.  id  `
  * ð  ` cardindex  `
  * ð¥  ` carrot  `
  * ð  ` cart  `
  * ð¼  ` cassette  `
  * ð°  ` castle.  eu  `
  * ð¯  ` castle.  jp  `
  * ð  ` cat  `
  * ð±  ` cat.  face  `
  * ð¾  ` cat.  face.  angry  `
  * ð¿  ` cat.  face.  cry  `
  * ð»  ` cat.  face.  heart  `
  * ð¹  ` cat.  face.  joy  `
  * ð½  ` cat.  face.  kiss  `
  * ð¸  ` cat.  face.  laugh  `
  * ð  ` cat.  face.  shock  `
  * ðº  ` cat.  face.  smile  `
  * ð¼  ` cat.  face.  smirk  `
  * ð  ` chain  `
  * â  ` chains  `
  * ðª  ` chair  `
  * ð¾  ` champagne  `
  * ð  ` chart.  bar  `
  * ð  ` chart.  up  `
  * ð  ` chart.  down  `
  * ð¹  ` chart.  yen.  up  `
  * â  ` checkmark.  heavy  `
  * â  ` checkmark.  box  `
  * ð§  ` cheese  `
  * ð  ` cherries  `
  * â  ` chess  `
  * ð°  ` chestnut  `
  * ð  ` chicken  `
  * ð¥  ` chicken.  baby  `
  * ð£  ` chicken.  baby.  egg  `
  * ð¤  ` chicken.  baby.  head  `
  * ð  ` chicken.  leg  `
  * ð  ` chicken.  male  `
  * ð§  ` child  `
  * ð¿  ` chipmunk  `
  * ð«  ` chocolate  `
  * ð¥¢  ` chopsticks  `
  * âª  ` church  `
  * ð  ` church.  love  `
  * ð¬  ` cigarette  `
  * ð­  ` cigarette.  not  `
  * â«  ` circle.  black  `
  * ðµ  ` circle.  blue  `
  * ð¤  ` circle.  brown  `
  * ð¢  ` circle.  green  `
  * ð  ` circle.  orange  `
  * ð£  ` circle.  purple  `
  * âª  ` circle.  white  `
  * ð´  ` circle.  red  `
  * ð¡  ` circle.  yellow  `
  * â­  ` circle.  stroked  `
  * ðª  ` circus  `
  * ð  ` city  `
  * ð  ` city.  dusk  `
  * ð  ` city.  night  `
  * ð  ` city.  sunset  `
  * ð  ` clamp  `
  * ð¬  ` clapperboard  `
  * ð§  ` climbing  `
  * ð  ` clip  `
  * ð  ` clipboard  `
  * ð  ` clips  `
  * ð  ` clock.  one  `
  * ð  ` clock.  one.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  two  `
  * ð  ` clock.  two.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  three  `
  * ð  ` clock.  three.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  four  `
  * ð  ` clock.  four.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  five  `
  * ð  ` clock.  five.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  six  `
  * ð¡  ` clock.  six.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  seven  `
  * ð¢  ` clock.  seven.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  eight  `
  * ð£  ` clock.  eight.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  nine  `
  * ð¤  ` clock.  nine.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  ten  `
  * ð¥  ` clock.  ten.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  eleven  `
  * ð¦  ` clock.  eleven.  thirty  `
  * ð  ` clock.  twelve  `
  * ð§  ` clock.  twelve.  thirty  `
  * â°  ` clock.  alarm  `
  * ð°  ` clock.  old  `
  * â²  ` clock.  timer  `
  * â  ` cloud  `
  * ð¨  ` cloud.  dust  `
  * ð§  ` cloud.  rain  `
  * ð¨  ` cloud.  snow  `
  * â  ` cloud.  storm  `
  * â  ` cloud.  sun  `
  * ð¥  ` cloud.  sun.  hidden  `
  * ð¦  ` cloud.  sun.  rain  `
  * ð©  ` cloud.  thunder  `
  * ð§¥  ` coat  `
  * ð¥¼  ` coat.  lab  `
  * ðª³  ` cockroach  `
  * ð¸  ` cocktail.  martini  `
  * ð¹  ` cocktail.  tropical  `
  * ð¥¥  ` coconut  `
  * â  ` coffee  `
  * â°  ` coffin  `
  * ðª  ` coin  `
  * â  ` comet  `
  * ð§­  ` compass  `
  * ð¥  ` computer  `
  * ð±  ` computermouse  `
  * ð  ` confetti  `
  * ð§  ` construction  `
  * ð®  ` controller  `
  * ðª  ` cookie  `
  * ð¥  ` cookie.  fortune  `
  * ð³  ` cooking  `
  * ð  ` cool  `
  * Â©  ` copyright  `
  * ðª¸  ` coral  `
  * ð½  ` corn  `
  * ð  ` couch  `
  * ð  ` couple  `
  * ð  ` cow  `
  * ð®  ` cow.  face  `
  * ð¦  ` crab  `
  * ð  ` crane  `
  * ð  ` crayon  `
  * ð¦  ` cricket  `
  * ð  ` cricketbat  `
  * ð  ` crocodile  `
  * ð¥  ` croissant  `
  * â  ` crossmark  `
  * â  ` crossmark.  box  `
  * ð  ` crown  `
  * ð©¼  ` crutch  `
  * ð®  ` crystal  `
  * ð¥  ` cucumber  `
  * ð¥¤  ` cup.  straw  `
  * ð§  ` cupcake  `
  * ð¥  ` curling  `
  * ð  ` curry  `
  * ð®  ` custard  `
  * ð  ` customs  `
  * ð´  ` cutlery  `
  * ð  ` cyclone  `
  * ðº  ` dancing.  man  `
  * ð  ` dancing.  woman  `
  * ð¯  ` dancing.  women.  bunny  `
  * ð¯  ` darts  `
  * ã°  ` dash.  wave.  double  `
  * ð¦  ` deer  `
  * ð  ` desert  `
  * ðµ  ` detective  `
  * ð·  ` diamond.  blue  `
  * ð¹  ` diamond.  blue.  small  `
  * ð¶  ` diamond.  orange  `
  * ð¸  ` diamond.  orange.  small  `
  * ð  ` diamond.  dot  `
  * ð²  ` die  `
  * ð¦  ` dino.  pod  `
  * ð¦  ` dino.  rex  `
  * ð¿  ` disc.  cd  `
  * ð  ` disc.  dvd  `
  * ð½  ` disc.  mini  `
  * ðª©  ` discoball  `
  * ð¤¿  ` diving  `
  * ð¦¤  ` dodo  `
  * ð  ` dog  `
  * ð¶  ` dog.  face  `
  * ð¦®  ` dog.  guide  `
  * ð©  ` dog.  poodle  `
  * ð²  ` dollar  `
  * ð¬  ` dolphin  `
  * ð©  ` donut  `
  * ðª  ` door  `
  * ð  ` dove.  peace  `
  * ð  ` dragon  `
  * ð²  ` dragon.  face  `
  * ð  ` dress  `
  * ð  ` dress.  kimono  `
  * ð¥»  ` dress.  sari  `
  * ð§  ` drop  `
  * ð¦  ` drops  `
  * ð¥  ` drum  `
  * ðª  ` drum.  big  `
  * ð¦  ` duck  `
  * ð¥  ` dumpling  `
  * ð¦  ` eagle  `
  * ð  ` ear  `
  * ð¦»  ` ear.  aid  `
  * ð¥  ` egg  `
  * ð  ` eighteen.  not  `
  * ð  ` elephant  `
  * ð  ` elevator  `
  * ð§  ` elf  `
  * ð§  ` email  `
  * â  ` excl  `
  * â  ` excl.  white  `
  * â¼  ` excl.  double  `
  * â  ` excl.  quest  `
  * ð¥  ` explosion  `
  * ð§¯  ` extinguisher  `
  * ð  ` eye  `
  * ð  ` eyes  `
  * ð  ` face.  grin  `
  * ð  ` face.  angry  `
  * ð¡  ` face.  angry.  red  `
  * ð§  ` face.  anguish  `
  * ð²  ` face.  astonish  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  bandage  `
  * ð  ` face.  beam  `
  * ð¶  ` face.  blank  `
  * ð¤¡  ` face.  clown  `
  * ð¥¶  ` face.  cold  `
  * ð¦  ` face.  concern  `
  * ð  ` face.  cool  `
  * ð¤­  ` face.  cover  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  cowboy  `
  * ð­  ` face.  cry  `
  * ð  ` face.  devil.  smile  `
  * ð¿  ` face.  devil.  frown  `
  * ð«¤  ` face.  diagonal  `
  * ð¥¸  ` face.  disguise  `
  * ð«  ` face.  distress  `
  * ðµ  ` face.  dizzy  `
  * ð«¥  ` face.  dotted  `
  * ð  ` face.  down  `
  * ð  ` face.  down.  sweat  `
  * ð¤¤  ` face.  drool  `
  * ð¤¯  ` face.  explode  `
  * ð  ` face.  eyeroll  `
  * âº  ` face.  friendly  `
  * ð¨  ` face.  fear  `
  * ð°  ` face.  fear.  sweat  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  fever  `
  * ð³  ` face.  flush  `
  * â¹  ` face.  frown  `
  * ð  ` face.  frown.  slight  `
  * ð£  ` face.  frust  `
  * ð¤ª  ` face.  goofy  `
  * ð  ` face.  halo  `
  * ð  ` face.  happy  `
  * ð  ` face.  heart  `
  * ð¥°  ` face.  hearts  `
  * ð¥µ  ` face.  heat  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  hug  `
  * ð  ` face.  inv  `
  * ð  ` face.  joy  `
  * ð  ` face.  kiss  `
  * ð  ` face.  kiss.  smile  `
  * ð  ` face.  kiss.  heart  `
  * ð  ` face.  kiss.  blush  `
  * ð  ` face.  lick  `
  * ð¤¥  ` face.  lie  `
  * ð·  ` face.  mask  `
  * ð  ` face.  meh  `
  * ð«  ` face.  melt  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  money  `
  * ð§  ` face.  monocle  `
  * ð¤¢  ` face.  nausea  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  nerd  `
  * ð  ` face.  neutral  `
  * ð  ` face.  open  `
  * ð¥³  ` face.  party  `
  * ð«£  ` face.  peek  `
  * ð¥º  ` face.  plead  `
  * ð  ` face.  relief  `
  * ð¤£  ` face.  rofl  `
  * ð  ` face.  sad  `
  * ð«¡  ` face.  salute  `
  * ð±  ` face.  shock  `
  * ð¤«  ` face.  shush  `
  * ð¤¨  ` face.  skeptic  `
  * ð´  ` face.  sleep  `
  * ðª  ` face.  sleepy  `
  * ð  ` face.  smile  `
  * ð  ` face.  smile.  slight  `
  * ð  ` face.  smile.  sweat  `
  * ð¥²  ` face.  smile.  tear  `
  * ð  ` face.  smirk  `
  * ð¤§  ` face.  sneeze  `
  * ð«¢  ` face.  speak.  not  `
  * ð  ` face.  squint  `
  * ð¤©  ` face.  stars  `
  * ð  ` face.  straight  `
  * ð  ` face.  suffer  `
  * ð¯  ` face.  surprise  `
  * ð¤¬  ` face.  symbols  `
  * ð¢  ` face.  tear  `
  * ð¥  ` face.  tear.  relief  `
  * ð¥¹  ` face.  tear.  withheld  `
  * ð¬  ` face.  teeth  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  think  `
  * ð«©  ` face.  tired  `
  * ð  ` face.  tongue  `
  * ð  ` face.  tongue.  squint  `
  * ð  ` face.  tongue.  wink  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  triumph  `
  * ð  ` face.  unhappy  `
  * ð¤®  ` face.  vomit  `
  * ð©  ` face.  weary  `
  * ð  ` face.  wink  `
  * ð¥´  ` face.  woozy  `
  * ð  ` face.  worry  `
  * ð®  ` face.  wow  `
  * ð¥±  ` face.  yawn  `
  * ð¤  ` face.  zip  `
  * ð­  ` factory  `
  * ð§  ` fairy  `
  * â  ` faith.  christ  `
  * â¸  ` faith.  dharma  `
  * âª  ` faith.  islam  `
  * â¡  ` faith.  judaism  `
  * ð  ` faith.  menorah  `
  * ð  ` faith.  om  `
  * â¦  ` faith.  orthodox  `
  * â®  ` faith.  peace  `
  * ð¯  ` faith.  star.  dot  `
  * ð  ` faith.  worship  `
  * â¯  ` faith.  yinyang  `
  * ð§  ` falafel  `
  * ðª  ` family  `
  * ð  ` fax  `
  * ðª¶  ` feather  `
  * ð¤±  ` feeding.  breast  `
  * ð¤º  ` fencing  `
  * ð¡  ` ferriswheel  `
  * ð  ` filebox  `
  * ð  ` filedividers  `
  * ð  ` film  `
  * ð  ` finger.  r  `
  * ð  ` finger.  l  `
  * ð  ` finger.  t  `
  * â  ` finger.  t.  alt  `
  * ð  ` finger.  b  `
  * ð«µ  ` finger.  front  `
  * ð  ` finger.  m  `
  * ð«  ` fingerprint  `
  * ð¤  ` fingers.  cross  `
  * ð¤  ` fingers.  pinch  `
  * ð«°  ` fingers.  snap  `
  * ð¥  ` fire  `
  * ð§¨  ` firecracker  `
  * ð  ` fireengine  `
  * ð  ` fireworks  `
  * ð  ` fish  `
  * ð  ` fish.  tropical  `
  * ð£  ` fishing  `
  * ð  ` fist.  front  `
  * ð¤  ` fist.  r  `
  * ð¤  ` fist.  l  `
  * â  ` fist.  raised  `
  * ð´  ` flag.  black  `
  * ð³  ` flag.  white  `
  * ð  ` flag.  goal  `
  * â³  ` flag.  golf  `
  * ð©  ` flag.  red  `
  * ð  ` flags.  jp.  crossed  `
  * ð¦©  ` flamingo  `
  * ð¦  ` flashlight  `
  * ð«  ` flatbread  `
  * â  ` fleur  `
  * ð¾  ` floppy  `
  * ðº  ` flower.  hibiscus  `
  * ðª·  ` flower.  lotus  `
  * ð¸  ` flower.  pink  `
  * ð¹  ` flower.  rose  `
  * ð»  ` flower.  sun  `
  * ð·  ` flower.  tulip  `
  * ð®  ` flower.  white  `
  * ð¥  ` flower.  wilted  `
  * ð¼  ` flower.  yellow  `
  * ðª°  ` fly  `
  * ð«  ` fog  `
  * ð  ` folder  `
  * ð  ` folder.  open  `
  * ð«  ` fondue  `
  * ð¦¶  ` foot  `
  * â½  ` football  `
  * ð  ` football.  am  `
  * ð±  ` forex  `
  * â²  ` fountain  `
  * ð¦  ` fox  `
  * ð  ` free  `
  * ð  ` fries  `
  * ð¥  ` frisbee  `
  * ð¸  ` frog.  face  `
  * â½  ` fuelpump  `
  * ð§  ` garlic  `
  * â  ` gear  `
  * ð  ` gem  `
  * ð§  ` genie  `
  * ð»  ` ghost  `
  * ð¦  ` giraffe  `
  * ð§  ` girl  `
  * ð¥  ` glass.  clink  `
  * ð¥  ` glass.  milk  `
  * ð«  ` glass.  pour  `
  * ð¥  ` glass.  tumbler  `
  * ð  ` glasses  `
  * ð¶  ` glasses.  sun  `
  * ð  ` globe.  am  `
  * ð  ` globe.  as.  au  `
  * ð  ` globe.  eu.  af  `
  * ð  ` globe.  meridian  `
  * ð§¤  ` gloves  `
  * ð¥  ` goal  `
  * ð  ` goat  `
  * ð¥½  ` goggles  `
  * ð  ` golfing  `
  * ð¦  ` gorilla  `
  * ð  ` grapes  `
  * ð  ` guard.  man  `
  * ð¸  ` guitar  `
  * ð¤¸  ` gymnastics  `
  * ð  ` haircut  `
  * ð¨  ` hammer  `
  * â  ` hammer.  pick  `
  * ð  ` hammer.  wrench  `
  * ðª¬  ` hamsa  `
  * ð¹  ` hamster.  face  `
  * â  ` hand.  raised  `
  * ð¤  ` hand.  raised.  alt  `
  * ð«±  ` hand.  r  `
  * ð«²  ` hand.  l  `
  * ð«´  ` hand.  t  `
  * ð«³  ` hand.  b  `
  * ð  ` hand.  ok  `
  * ð¤  ` hand.  call  `
  * ð¤  ` hand.  love  `
  * ð  ` hand.  part  `
  * â  ` hand.  peace  `
  * ð¤  ` hand.  pinch  `
  * ð¤  ` hand.  rock  `
  * ð  ` hand.  splay  `
  * ð  ` hand.  wave  `
  * â  ` hand.  write  `
  * ð  ` handbag  `
  * ð¤¾  ` handball  `
  * ð¬  ` handholding.  man.  man  `
  * ð«  ` handholding.  woman.  man  `
  * ð­  ` handholding.  woman.  woman  `
  * ð  ` hands.  folded  `
  * ð¤²  ` hands.  palms  `
  * ð  ` hands.  clap  `
  * ð«¶  ` hands.  heart  `
  * ð  ` hands.  open  `
  * ð  ` hands.  raised  `
  * ð¤  ` hands.  shake  `
  * ðª  ` harp  `
  * #  ` hash  `
  * ð  ` hat.  ribbon  `
  * ð©  ` hat.  top  `
  * ð§  ` headphone  `
  * â¤  ` heart  `
  * ð  ` heart.  arrow  `
  * ð  ` heart.  beat  `
  * ð¤  ` heart.  black  `
  * ð  ` heart.  blue  `
  * ð  ` heart.  box  `
  * ð  ` heart.  broken  `
  * ð¤  ` heart.  brown  `
  * ð  ` heart.  double  `
  * â£  ` heart.  excl  `
  * ð  ` heart.  green  `
  * ð  ` heart.  grow  `
  * ð§¡  ` heart.  orange  `
  * ð  ` heart.  purple  `
  * ð«  ` heart.  real  `
  * ð  ` heart.  revolve  `
  * ð  ` heart.  ribbon  `
  * ð  ` heart.  spark  `
  * ð¤  ` heart.  white  `
  * ð  ` heart.  yellow  `
  * ð¦  ` hedgehog  `
  * ð  ` helicopter  `
  * ð§¬  ` helix  `
  * â  ` helmet.  cross  `
  * ðª  ` helmet.  military  `
  * ð¦  ` hippo  `
  * ð  ` hockey  `
  * ð³  ` hole  `
  * ð¯  ` honey  `
  * ð§§  ` hongbao  `
  * ðª  ` hook  `
  * ð¯  ` horn.  postal  `
  * ð  ` horse  `
  * ð  ` horse.  carousel  `
  * ð´  ` horse.  face  `
  * ð  ` horse.  race  `
  * ð¥  ` hospital  `
  * ð­  ` hotdog  `
  * ð¨  ` hotel  `
  * ð©  ` hotel.  love  `
  * â¨  ` hotspring  `
  * â  ` hourglass  `
  * â³  ` hourglass.  flow  `
  * ð  ` house  `
  * ð  ` house.  derelict  `
  * ð¡  ` house.  garden  `
  * ð  ` house.  multiple  `
  * ð¯  ` hundred  `
  * ð  ` hut  `
  * ð§  ` ice  `
  * ð¨  ` icecream  `
  * ð§  ` icecream.  shaved  `
  * ð¦  ` icecream.  soft  `
  * ð  ` icehockey  `
  * ð  ` id  `
  * â¹  ` info  `
  * ð®  ` izakaya  `
  * ð«  ` jar  `
  * ð  ` jeans  `
  * ð§©  ` jigsaw  `
  * ð¹  ` joystick  `
  * ð¤¹  ` juggling  `
  * ð§  ` juice  `
  * ð  ` kaaba  `
  * ð  ` kadomatsu  `
  * ð¦  ` kangaroo  `
  * ð·  ` gachi  `
  * ð´  ` go  `
  * ã  ` hi  `
  * ð  ` ka  `
  * ð¹  ` kachi  `
  * ð³  ` kara  `
  * ð²  ` kon  `
  * ð¨  ` man  `
  * ð¹  ` man.  box  `
  * ð¤´  ` man.  crown  `
  * ð²  ` man.  guapimao  `
  * ð´  ` man.  levitate  `
  * ð´  ` man.  old  `
  * ð«  ` man.  pregnant  `
  * ð³  ` man.  turban  `
  * ð¤µ  ` man.  tuxedo  `
  * ð  ` muryo  `
  * ð¸  ` shin  `
  * ã  ` shuku  `
  * ð  ` toku  `
  * ðº  ` yo  `
  * ð¯  ` yubi  `
  * ð¶  ` yuryo  `
  * ð  ` koko  `
  * ð  ` sa  `
  * ð¥  ` kebab  `
  * ð  ` key  `
  * ð  ` key.  old  `
  * â¨  ` keyboard  `
  * ð  ` kiss  `
  * ð  ` kissmark  `
  * ðª  ` kite  `
  * ð¥  ` kiwi  `
  * ðª  ` knife  `
  * ð¡  ` knife.  dagger  `
  * ðª¢  ` knot  `
  * ð¨  ` koala  `
  * ð  ` koinobori  `
  * ð·  ` label  `
  * ð¥  ` lacrosse  `
  * ðª  ` ladder  `
  * ðª  ` lamp.  diya  `
  * ð»  ` laptop  `
  * ð °  ` a  `
  * ð  ` ab  `
  * ð ±  ` b  `
  * ð  ` cl  `
  * ð ¾  ` o  `
  * â  ` leaf.  clover.  three  `
  * ð  ` leaf.  clover.  four  `
  * ð  ` leaf.  fall  `
  * ð¿  ` leaf.  herb  `
  * ð  ` leaf.  maple  `
  * ð  ` leaf.  wind  `
  * ð  ` leftluggage  `
  * ð¦µ  ` leg  `
  * ð¦¿  ` leg.  mech  `
  * ð  ` lemon  `
  * ð  ` leopard  `
  * ð  ` letter.  love  `
  * ð½  ` liberty  `
  * ð¡  ` lightbulb  `
  * â¡  ` lightning  `
  * ð¦  ` lion  `
  * ð  ` lipstick  `
  * ð®  ` litter  `
  * ð¯  ` litter.  not  `
  * ð¦  ` lizard  `
  * ð¦  ` llama  `
  * ð¦  ` lobster  `
  * ð  ` lock  `
  * ð  ` lock.  key  `
  * ð  ` lock.  open  `
  * ð  ` lock.  pen  `
  * ð­  ` lollipop  `
  * ð§´  ` lotion  `
  * ð§³  ` luggage  `
  * ð«  ` lungs  `
  * ð§  ` mage  `
  * ð§²  ` magnet  `
  * ð  ` magnify.  r  `
  * ð  ` magnify.  l  `
  * ð  ` mahjong.  dragon.  red  `
  * â  ` mail  `
  * ð©  ` mail.  arrow  `
  * ðª  ` mailbox.  closed.  empty  `
  * ð«  ` mailbox.  closed.  full  `
  * ð­  ` mailbox.  open.  empty  `
  * ð¬  ` mailbox.  open.  full  `
  * ð¦£  ` mammoth  `
  * ð¥­  ` mango  `
  * ðº  ` map.  world  `
  * ð¾  ` map.  jp  `
  * ð¥  ` martialarts  `
  * ð­  ` masks  `
  * ð§  ` mate  `
  * ðª  ` matryoshka  `
  * ð¥©  ` meat  `
  * ð  ` meat.  bone  `
  * ð¥  ` medal.  first  `
  * ð¥  ` medal.  second  `
  * ð¥  ` medal.  third  `
  * ð  ` medal.  sports  `
  * ð  ` medal.  military  `
  * ð¢  ` megaphone  `
  * ð£  ` megaphone.  simple  `
  * ð  ` melon  `
  * ð§  ` merperson  `
  * â  ` metro  `
  * ð¦  ` microbe  `
  * ð¤  ` microphone  `
  * ð  ` microphone.  studio  `
  * ð¬  ` microscope  `
  * ð  ` milkyway  `
  * ðª  ` mirror  `
  * ð  ` mixer  `
  * ð°  ` money.  bag  `
  * ðµ  ` money.  dollar  `
  * ð¶  ` money.  euro  `
  * ð·  ` money.  pound  `
  * ð´  ` money.  yen  `
  * ð¸  ` money.  wings  `
  * ð  ` monkey  `
  * ðµ  ` monkey.  face  `
  * ð  ` monkey.  hear.  not  `
  * ð  ` monkey.  see.  not  `
  * ð  ` monkey.  speak.  not  `
  * ð  ` moon.  crescent  `
  * ð  ` moon.  full  `
  * ð  ` moon.  full.  face  `
  * ð  ` moon.  new  `
  * ð  ` moon.  new.  face  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wane.  one  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wane.  two  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wane.  three.  face  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wane.  three  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wax.  one  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wax.  two  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wax.  two.  face  `
  * ð  ` moon.  wax.  three  `
  * ð  ` mortarboard  `
  * ð  ` mosque  `
  * ð¦  ` mosquito  `
  * ð  ` motorcycle  `
  * ð£  ` motorway  `
  * â°  ` mountain  `
  * ð»  ` mountain.  fuji  `
  * ð  ` mountain.  snow  `
  * ð  ` mountain.  sunrise  `
  * ð  ` mouse  `
  * ð­  ` mouse.  face  `
  * ðª¤  ` mousetrap  `
  * ð  ` mouth  `
  * ð«¦  ` mouth.  bite  `
  * ð¿  ` moyai  `
  * ð  ` museum  `
  * ð  ` mushroom  `
  * ð¼  ` musicalscore  `
  * ð  ` nails.  polish  `
  * ð  ` namebadge  `
  * ð§¿  ` nazar  `
  * ð  ` necktie  `
  * ðª¡  ` needle  `
  * ðª¹  ` nest.  empty  `
  * ðªº  ` nest.  eggs  `
  * ð  ` new  `
  * ð°  ` newspaper  `
  * ð  ` newspaper.  rolled  `
  * ð  ` ng  `
  * ð  ` ningyo  `
  * ð¥·  ` ninja  `
  * â  ` noentry  `
  * ð  ` nose  `
  * ð  ` notebook  `
  * ð  ` notebook.  deco  `
  * ð  ` notepad  `
  * ðµ  ` notes  `
  * ð¶  ` notes.  triple  `
  * ð¢  ` numbers  `
  * ð  ` octopus  `
  * ð¢  ` office  `
  * ð¢  ` oil  `
  * ð  ` ok  `
  * ð«  ` olive  `
  * ð¹  ` oni  `
  * ð§  ` onion  `
  * ð¦§  ` orangutan  `
  * ð¦¦  ` otter  `
  * ð¦  ` owl  `
  * ð  ` ox  `
  * ð¦ª  ` oyster  `
  * ð¦  ` package  `
  * ð¥  ` paella  `
  * ð  ` page  `
  * ð  ` page.  curl  `
  * ð  ` page.  pencil  `
  * ð  ` pager  `
  * ð  ` pages.  tabs  `
  * ð¼  ` painting  `
  * ð¨  ` palette  `
  * ð¥  ` pancakes  `
  * ð¼  ` panda  `
  * ðª  ` parachute  `
  * ð  ` park  `
  * ð ¿  ` parking  `
  * ð¦  ` parrot  `
  * ã½  ` partalteration  `
  * ð  ` party  `
  * ð  ` peach  `
  * ð¦  ` peacock  `
  * ð¥  ` peanuts  `
  * ð  ` pear  `
  * ð¶  ` pedestrian  `
  * ð·  ` pedestrian.  not  `
  * ð  ` pen.  ball  `
  * ð  ` pen.  fountain  `
  * â  ` pencil  `
  * ð§  ` penguin  `
  * ð«  ` pepper  `
  * ð¶  ` pepper.  hot  `
  * ð§  ` person  `
  * ð  ` person.  angry  `
  * ð§  ` person.  beard  `
  * ð±  ` person.  blonde  `
  * ð  ` person.  bow  `
  * ð«  ` person.  crown  `
  * ð§  ` person.  deaf  `
  * ð¤¦  ` person.  facepalm  `
  * ð  ` person.  frown  `
  * ð§  ` person.  hijab  `
  * ð§  ` person.  kneel  `
  * ð§  ` person.  lotus  `
  * ð  ` person.  massage  `
  * ð  ` person.  no  `
  * ð  ` person.  ok  `
  * ð§  ` person.  old  `
  * ð«  ` person.  pregnant  `
  * ð  ` person.  raise  `
  * ð  ` person.  sassy  `
  * ð¤·  ` person.  shrug  `
  * ð§  ` person.  stand  `
  * ð§  ` person.  steam  `
  * ð§«  ` petri  `
  * ð±  ` phone  `
  * ð²  ` phone.  arrow  `
  * â  ` phone.  classic  `
  * ðµ  ` phone.  not  `
  * ð´  ` phone.  off  `
  * ð  ` phone.  receiver  `
  * ð¶  ` phone.  signal  `
  * ð³  ` phone.  vibrate  `
  * ð¹  ` piano  `
  * â  ` pick  `
  * ð¥§  ` pie  `
  * ð  ` pig  `
  * ð·  ` pig.  face  `
  * ð½  ` pig.  nose  `
  * ð  ` pill  `
  * ð  ` pin  `
  * ð  ` pin.  round  `
  * ðª  ` pinata  `
  * ð  ` pineapple  `
  * ð  ` pingpong  `
  * ð«  ` pistol  `
  * ð  ` pizza  `
  * ðª§  ` placard  `
  * ðª  ` planet  `
  * ðª´  ` plant  `
  * ð©¹  ` plaster  `
  * ð½  ` plate.  cutlery  `
  * â¬  ` playback.  down  `
  * â  ` playback.  eject  `
  * â©  ` playback.  forward  `
  * â¸  ` playback.  pause  `
  * âº  ` playback.  record  `
  * ð  ` playback.  repeat  `
  * ð  ` playback.  repeat.  once  `
  * ð  ` playback.  repeat.  v  `
  * â®  ` playback.  restart  `
  * âª  ` playback.  rewind  `
  * ð  ` playback.  shuffle  `
  * â­  ` playback.  skip  `
  * â¹  ` playback.  stop  `
  * â¯  ` playback.  toggle  `
  * â«  ` playback.  up  `
  * ð´  ` playingcard.  flower  `
  * ð  ` playingcard.  joker  `
  * ðª  ` plunger  `
  * ð®  ` policeofficer  `
  * ð©  ` poo  `
  * ð¿  ` popcorn  `
  * ð¤  ` post.  eu  `
  * ð£  ` post.  jp  `
  * ð®  ` postbox  `
  * ð¥  ` potato  `
  * ð  ` potato.  sweet  `
  * ð  ` pouch  `
  * ð  ` powerplug  `
  * ð  ` present  `
  * ð¥¨  ` pretzel  `
  * ð¨  ` printer  `
  * ð£  ` prints.  foot  `
  * ð¾  ` prints.  paw  `
  * ð«  ` prohibited  `
  * ð½  ` projector  `
  * ð  ` pumpkin.  lantern  `
  * ð  ` purse  `
  * â  ` quest  `
  * â  ` quest.  white  `
  * ð  ` rabbit  `
  * ð°  ` rabbit.  face  `
  * ð¦  ` raccoon  `
  * ð»  ` radio  `
  * â¢  ` radioactive  `
  * ð¤  ` railway  `
  * ð  ` rainbow  `
  * ð  ` ram  `
  * ð  ` rat  `
  * ðª  ` razor  `
  * ð§¾  ` receipt  `
  * â»  ` recycling  `
  * Â®  ` reg  `
  * ð»  ` restroom  `
  * ð¦  ` rhino  `
  * ð  ` ribbon  `
  * ð  ` ribbon.  remind  `
  * ð  ` rice  `
  * ð  ` rice.  cracker  `
  * ð¾  ` rice.  ear  `
  * ð  ` rice.  onigiri  `
  * ð  ` ring  `
  * ð  ` ringbuoy  `
  * ð¤  ` robot  `
  * ðª¨  ` rock  `
  * ð  ` rocket  `
  * ð¢  ` rollercoaster  `
  * ðµ  ` rosette  `
  * ð  ` rugby  `
  * ð  ` ruler  `
  * ð  ` ruler.  triangle  `
  * ð  ` running  `
  * ð§·  ` safetypin  `
  * ð¦º  ` safetyvest  `
  * ð¶  ` sake  `
  * ð¥  ` salad  `
  * ð§  ` salt  `
  * ð¥ª  ` sandwich  `
  * ð  ` santa.  man  `
  * ð¤¶  ` santa.  woman  `
  * ð¡  ` satdish  `
  * ð°  ` satellite  `
  * ðª  ` saw  `
  * ð·  ` saxophone  `
  * â  ` scales  `
  * ð§£  ` scarf  `
  * ð«  ` school  `
  * â  ` scissors  `
  * ð´  ` scooter  `
  * ðµ  ` scooter.  motor  `
  * ð¦  ` scorpion  `
  * ðª  ` screwdriver  `
  * ð  ` scroll  `
  * ð¦­  ` seal  `
  * ðº  ` seat  `
  * ð±  ` seedling  `
  * ð¦  ` shark  `
  * ð  ` sheep  `
  * ð  ` shell.  spiral  `
  * ð¡  ` shield  `
  * ð¢  ` ship  `
  * ð³  ` ship.  cruise  `
  * â´  ` ship.  ferry  `
  * ð½  ` shirt.  sports  `
  * ð  ` shirt.  t  `
  * ð  ` shoe  `
  * ð©°  ` shoe.  ballet  `
  * ð¥¿  ` shoe.  flat  `
  * ð  ` shoe.  heel  `
  * ð¥¾  ` shoe.  hike  `
  * â¸  ` shoe.  ice  `
  * ð¼  ` shoe.  roller  `
  * ð¡  ` shoe.  sandal.  heel  `
  * ð¿  ` shoe.  ski  `
  * ð  ` shoe.  sneaker  `
  * ð¢  ` shoe.  tall  `
  * ð©´  ` shoe.  thong  `
  * ð  ` shopping  `
  * ð©³  ` shorts  `
  * ð°  ` shoshinsha  `
  * ðª  ` shovel  `
  * ð¿  ` shower  `
  * ð¦  ` shrimp  `
  * ð¤  ` shrimp.  fried  `
  * â©  ` shrine  `
  * ð¸  ` sign.  crossing  `
  * ð  ` sign.  stop  `
  * ð¤  ` silhouette  `
  * ð¥  ` silhouette.  double  `
  * ð«  ` silhouette.  hug  `
  * ð£  ` silhouette.  speak  `
  * ð¨  ` siren  `
  * ð¹  ` skateboard  `
  * ð¡  ` skewer.  dango  `
  * ð¢  ` skewer.  oden  `
  * â·  ` skiing  `
  * ð  ` skull  `
  * â  ` skull.  bones  `
  * ð¦¨  ` skunk  `
  * ð·  ` sled  `
  * ð  ` slide  `
  * ð  ` slider  `
  * ð¦¥  ` sloth  `
  * ð°  ` slots  `
  * ð  ` snail  `
  * ð  ` snake  `
  * ð  ` snowboarding  `
  * â  ` snowflake  `
  * â  ` snowman  `
  * â  ` snowman.  snow  `
  * ð§¼  ` soap  `
  * ð§¦  ` socks  `
  * ð¥  ` softball  `
  * ð  ` sos  `
  * ð²  ` soup  `
  * ð  ` spaghetti  `
  * â  ` sparkle.  box  `
  * ð  ` sparkler  `
  * â¨  ` sparkles  `
  * ð  ` speaker  `
  * ð  ` speaker.  not  `
  * ð  ` speaker.  wave  `
  * ð  ` speaker.  waves  `
  * ð·  ` spider  `
  * ð¸  ` spiderweb  `
  * ð¥¬  ` spinach  `
  * ð«  ` splatter  `
  * ð§½  ` sponge  `
  * ð¥  ` spoon  `
  * â¬  ` square.  black  `
  * âª  ` square.  black.  tiny  `
  * â¾  ` square.  black.  small  `
  * â¼  ` square.  black.  medium  `
  * â¬  ` square.  white  `
  * â«  ` square.  white.  tiny  `
  * â½  ` square.  white.  small  `
  * â»  ` square.  white.  medium  `
  * ð¦  ` square.  blue  `
  * ð«  ` square.  brown  `
  * ð©  ` square.  green  `
  * ð§  ` square.  orange  `
  * ðª  ` square.  purple  `
  * ð¥  ` square.  red  `
  * ð¨  ` square.  yellow  `
  * ð¦  ` squid  `
  * ð  ` stadium  `
  * â­  ` star  `
  * ð«  ` star.  arc  `
  * â´  ` star.  box  `
  * ð  ` star.  glow  `
  * ð  ` star.  shoot  `
  * ð©º  ` stethoscope  `
  * ð¬  ` store.  big  `
  * ðª  ` store.  small  `
  * ð  ` strawberry  `
  * â£  ` suit.  club  `
  * â¦  ` suit.  diamond  `
  * â¥  ` suit.  heart  `
  * â  ` suit.  spade  `
  * â  ` sun  `
  * ð¤  ` sun.  cloud  `
  * ð  ` sun.  face  `
  * ð  ` sunrise  `
  * ð¦¸  ` superhero  `
  * ð¦¹  ` supervillain  `
  * ð  ` surfing  `
  * ð£  ` sushi  `
  * ð¦¢  ` swan  `
  * ð  ` swimming  `
  * ð©±  ` swimsuit  `
  * â  ` swords  `
  * ð£  ` symbols  `
  * ð  ` synagogue  `
  * ð  ` syringe  `
  * ð®  ` taco  `
  * ð¥¡  ` takeout  `
  * ð«  ` tamale  `
  * ð  ` tanabata  `
  * ð  ` tangerine  `
  * ð°  ` tap  `
  * ð±  ` tap.  not  `
  * ð  ` taxi  `
  * ð  ` taxi.  front  `
  * ðµ  ` teacup  `
  * ð«  ` teapot  `
  * ð§¸  ` teddy  `
  * ð­  ` telescope  `
  * ð  ` temple  `
  * ð  ` ten  `
  * ðº  ` tengu  `
  * ð¾  ` tennis  `
  * âº  ` tent  `
  * ð§ª  ` testtube  `
  * ð¡  ` thermometer  `
  * ð§µ  ` thread  `
  * ð  ` thumb.  up  `
  * ð  ` thumb.  down  `
  * ð  ` ticket.  event  `
  * ð«  ` ticket.  travel  `
  * ð  ` tiger  `
  * ð¯  ` tiger.  face  `
  * â¢  ` tm  `
  * ð½  ` toilet  `
  * ð§»  ` toiletpaper  `
  * ð  ` tomato  `
  * ðª¦  ` tombstone  `
  * ð  ` tongue  `
  * ð§°  ` toolbox  `
  * ð¦·  ` tooth  `
  * ðª¥  ` toothbrush  `
  * ðª  ` tornado  `
  * ð¼  ` tower.  tokyo  `
  * ð²  ` trackball  `
  * ð  ` tractor  `
  * ð¦  ` trafficlight.  v  `
  * ð¥  ` trafficlight.  h  `
  * ð  ` train  `
  * ð  ` train.  car  `
  * ð  ` train.  light  `
  * ð  ` train.  metro  `
  * ð  ` train.  mono  `
  * ð  ` train.  mountain  `
  * ð  ` train.  speed  `
  * ð  ` train.  speed.  bullet  `
  * ð  ` train.  steam  `
  * ð  ` train.  stop  `
  * ð  ` train.  suspend  `
  * ð  ` train.  tram  `
  * ð  ` train.  tram.  car  `
  * â§  ` transgender  `
  * ð¥  ` tray.  inbox  `
  * ð¨  ` tray.  mail  `
  * ð¤  ` tray.  outbox  `
  * ð³  ` tree.  deciduous  `
  * ð²  ` tree.  evergreen  `
  * ðª¾  ` tree.  leafless  `
  * ð´  ` tree.  palm  `
  * ð  ` tree.  xmas  `
  * â¶  ` triangle.  r  `
  * â  ` triangle.  l  `
  * ð¼  ` triangle.  t  `
  * ð½  ` triangle.  b  `
  * ðº  ` triangle.  t.  red  `
  * ð»  ` triangle.  b.  red  `
  * ð±  ` trident  `
  * ð§  ` troll  `
  * ð  ` trophy  `
  * ð  ` truck  `
  * ð  ` truck.  trailer  `
  * ðº  ` trumpet  `
  * ð  ` tsukimi  `
  * ð¦  ` turkey  `
  * ð¢  ` turtle  `
  * ðº  ` tv  `
  * ð¸  ` ufo  `
  * â  ` umbrella.  open  `
  * ð  ` umbrella.  closed  `
  * â  ` umbrella.  rain  `
  * â±  ` umbrella.  sun  `
  * ð¦  ` unicorn  `
  * ð¦³  ` unknown  `
  * ð  ` up  `
  * â±  ` urn  `
  * ð§  ` vampire  `
  * ð»  ` violin  `
  * ð  ` volcano  `
  * ð  ` volleyball  `
  * ð  ` vs  `
  * ð§  ` waffle  `
  * ðª  ` wand  `
  * â  ` warning  `
  * â  ` watch  `
  * â±  ` watch.  stop  `
  * ð  ` watermelon  `
  * ð¤½  ` waterpolo  `
  * ð  ` wave  `
  * ð¾  ` wc  `
  * ð  ` weightlifting  `
  * ð  ` whale  `
  * ð³  ` whale.  spout  `
  * ð  ` wheel  `
  * ð¦½  ` wheelchair  `
  * â¿  ` wheelchair.  box  `
  * ð¦¼  ` wheelchair.  motor  `
  * ð¬  ` wind  `
  * ð  ` windchime  `
  * ðª  ` window  `
  * ð·  ` wine  `
  * ðº  ` wolf  `
  * ð©  ` woman  `
  * ðº  ` woman.  box  `
  * ð¸  ` woman.  crown  `
  * ðµ  ` woman.  old  `
  * ð¤°  ` woman.  pregnant  `
  * ðªµ  ` wood  `
  * ðª±  ` worm  `
  * ð§  ` wrench  `
  * ð¤¼  ` wrestling  `
  * ð©»  ` xray  `
  * ð§¶  ` yarn  `
  * ðª  ` yoyo  `
  * ð¦  ` zebra  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  aquarius  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  aries  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  cancer  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  capri  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  gemini  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  leo  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  libra  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  ophi  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  pisces  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  sagit  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  scorpio  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  taurus  `
  * â  ` zodiac.  virgo  `
  * ð§  ` zombie  `
  * ð¤  ` zzz  `

###

Name: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Escape:  ` \u  {  } ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Shorthand: ` ` ![Copy](/assets/icons/16-copy.svg)

Accent:  ![](/assets/icons/16-close.svg)

LaTeX: ` `

####  Variants

* [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) General  Previous page  ](/docs/reference/symbols/sym/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Symbol  Next page  ](/docs/reference/symbols/symbol/)



# **docs/reference/text/sub.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Subscript ](/docs/reference/text/sub/)

#  ` sub ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Renders text in subscript.

The text is rendered smaller and its baseline is lowered.

##  Example

    
    
    Revenue#sub[yearly]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/q6m3B3bVOLKPuJFIogqIMwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

sub  (

typographic  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  baseline  :  [
length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  size  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` typographic `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to prefer the dedicated subscript characters of the font.

If this is enabled, Typst first tries to transform the text to subscript
codepoints. If that fails, it falls back to rendering lowered and shrunk
normal letters.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    N#sub(typographic: true)[1]
    N#sub(typographic: false)[1]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/eGuJ4coPHcIbozTvGKvULAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` baseline `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The baseline shift for synthetic subscripts. Does not apply if ` typographic `
is true and the font has subscript codepoints for the given ` body ` .

Default: ` 0.2em  `

###  ` size `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The font size for synthetic subscripts. Does not apply if ` typographic ` is
true and the font has subscript codepoints for the given ` body ` .

Default: ` 0.6em  `

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The text to display in subscript.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Strikethrough  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/strike/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Superscript  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/super/)



# **docs/reference/text/text.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/text/)

#  ` text ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Customizes the look and layout of text in a variety of ways.

This function is used frequently, both with set rules and directly. While the
set rule is often the simpler choice, calling the ` text ` function directly
can be useful when passing text as an argument to another function.

##  Example

    
    
    #set text(18pt)
    With a set rule.
    
    #emph(text(blue)[
      With a function call.
    ])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/TE1TKvqGw3ajR6jn3phXugAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

text  (

font  :  [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  fallback  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  style  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  weight  :  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  stretch  :  [ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/) ,  size  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  fill  :  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  tracking  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  spacing  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) ,  cjk-latin-spacing  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) ,  baseline  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  overhang  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  top-edge  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,
bottom-edge  :  [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  lang  :  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  region  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  script  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  dir  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ direction
](/docs/reference/layout/direction/) ,  hyphenate  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  costs  :  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  kerning  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  alternates  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  stylistic-set  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)
[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  ligatures  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  discretionary-ligatures  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  historical-ligatures  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  number-type  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  number-width  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  slashed-zero  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  fractions  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  features  :  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` font `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

A font family name or priority list of font family names.

When processing text, Typst tries all specified font families in order until
it finds a font that has the necessary glyphs. In the example below, the font
` Inria Serif ` is preferred, but since it does not contain Arabic glyphs, the
arabic text uses ` Noto Sans Arabic ` instead.

The collection of available fonts differs by platform:

  * In the web app, you can see the list of available fonts by clicking on the "Ag" button. You can provide additional fonts by uploading ` .ttf ` or ` .otf ` files into your project. They will be discovered automatically. The priority is: project fonts > server fonts. 

  * Locally, Typst uses your installed system fonts or embedded fonts in the CLI, which are ` Libertinus Serif ` , ` New Computer Modern ` , ` New Computer Modern Math ` , and ` DejaVu Sans Mono ` . In addition, you can use the ` --font-path ` argument or ` TYPST_FONT_PATHS ` environment variable to add directories that should be scanned for fonts. The priority is: ` --font-paths ` > system fonts > embedded fonts. Run ` typst fonts ` to see the fonts that Typst has discovered on your system. Note that you can pass the ` --ignore-system-fonts ` parameter to the CLI to ensure Typst won't search for system fonts. 

Default: ` "libertinus serif"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(font: "PT Sans")
    This is sans-serif.
    
    #set text(font: (
      "Inria Serif",
      "Noto Sans Arabic",
    ))
    
    This is Latin. \
    ÙØ°Ø§ Ø¹Ø±Ø¨Ù.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/yZSlTN4UXKYq5EjwCcVgvwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` fallback `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to allow last resort font fallback when the primary font list contains
no match. This lets Typst search through all available fonts for the most
similar one that has the necessary glyphs.

_Note:_ Currently, there are no warnings when fallback is disabled and no
glyphs are found. Instead, your text shows up in the form of "tofus": Small
boxes that indicate the lack of an appropriate glyph. In the future, you will
be able to instruct Typst to issue warnings so you know something is up.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(font: "Inria Serif")
    ÙØ°Ø§ Ø¹Ø±Ø¨Ù
    
    #set text(fallback: false)
    ÙØ°Ø§ Ø¹Ø±Ø¨Ù
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/sa8VqsYbdClSlqi08qJyhAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` style `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The desired font style.

When an italic style is requested and only an oblique one is available, it is
used. Similarly, the other way around, an italic style can stand in for an
oblique one. When neither an italic nor an oblique style is available, Typst
selects the normal style. Since most fonts are only available either in an
italic or oblique style, the difference between italic and oblique style is
rarely observable.

If you want to emphasize your text, you should do so using the [ emph
](/docs/reference/model/emph/ "emph") function instead. This makes it easy to
adapt the style later if you change your mind about how to signify the
emphasis.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  normal  " ` |  The default, typically upright style.   
` "  italic  " ` |  A cursive style with custom letterform.   
` "  oblique  " ` |  Just a slanted version of the normal style.   
  
Default: ` "normal"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #text(font: "Libertinus Serif", style: "italic")[Italic]
    #text(font: "DejaVu Sans", style: "oblique")[Oblique]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/S5xaZcVoGLtnT_0XwbPSUQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` weight `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The desired thickness of the font's glyphs. Accepts an integer between ` 100
` and ` 900  ` or one of the predefined weight names. When the desired weight
is not available, Typst selects the font from the family that is closest in
weight.

If you want to strongly emphasize your text, you should do so using the [
strong ](/docs/reference/model/strong/ "strong") function instead. This makes
it easy to adapt the style later if you change your mind about how to signify
the strong emphasis.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  thin  " ` |  Thin weight (100).   
` "  extralight  " ` |  Extra light weight (200).   
` "  light  " ` |  Light weight (300).   
` "  regular  " ` |  Regular weight (400).   
` "  medium  " ` |  Medium weight (500).   
` "  semibold  " ` |  Semibold weight (600).   
` "  bold  " ` |  Bold weight (700).   
` "  extrabold  " ` |  Extrabold weight (800).   
` "  black  " ` |  Black weight (900).   
  
Default: ` "regular"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(font: "IBM Plex Sans")
    
    #text(weight: "light")[Light] \
    #text(weight: "regular")[Regular] \
    #text(weight: "medium")[Medium] \
    #text(weight: 500)[Medium] \
    #text(weight: "bold")[Bold]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HLYJEJyYVhBAwk1NcGJZjQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stretch `

[ ratio ](/docs/reference/layout/ratio/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The desired width of the glyphs. Accepts a ratio between ` 50%  ` and ` 200%
` . When the desired width is not available, Typst selects the font from the
family that is closest in stretch. This will only stretch the text if a
condensed or expanded version of the font is available.

If you want to adjust the amount of space between characters instead of
stretching the glyphs itself, use the [ ` tracking `
](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-tracking) property instead.

Default: ` 100%  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #text(stretch: 75%)[Condensed] \
    #text(stretch: 100%)[Normal]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QhcCPECtjtdl-HaT2kdIoQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` size `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The size of the glyphs. This value forms the basis of the ` em ` unit: ` 1em
` is equivalent to the font size.

You can also give the font size itself in ` em ` units. Then, it is relative
to the previous font size.

Default: ` 11pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(size: 20pt)
    very #text(1.5em)[big] text
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/blheA65DgOU1lkslOoHidgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` fill `

[ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The glyph fill paint.

Default: ` luma  (  0%  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(fill: red)
    This text is red.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/hjdTrz3B1HnAtRXCRTTtGAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to stroke the text.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #text(stroke: 0.5pt + red)[Stroked]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/9XI8EQ1M6rOusSDRRIbaPQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` tracking `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of space that should be added between characters.

Default: ` 0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(tracking: 1.5pt)
    Distant text.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_W5ZMMvgiXlv5B8vI6sbcQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` spacing `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount of space between words.

Can be given as an absolute length, but also relative to the width of the
space character in the font.

If you want to adjust the amount of space between characters rather than
words, use the [ ` tracking ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-
tracking) property instead.

Default: ` 100%  +  0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(spacing: 200%)
    Text with distant words.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/NLatl7xe_PftXpK8eI1WSgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` cjk-latin-spacing `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to automatically insert spacing between CJK and Latin characters.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(cjk-latin-spacing: auto)
    ç¬¬4ç« ä»ç»äºåºæ¬çAPIã
    
    #set text(cjk-latin-spacing: none)
    ç¬¬4ç« ä»ç»äºåºæ¬çAPIã
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VxUeM1bvsLzygleocZmQUAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` baseline `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

An amount to shift the text baseline by.

Default: ` 0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    A #text(baseline: 3pt)[lowered]
    word.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Kc1E9Ts9m1i30dvtf5ymQgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` overhang `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether certain glyphs can hang over into the margin in justified text. This
can make justification visually more pleasing.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par(justify: true)
    This justified text has a hyphen in
    the paragraph's first line. Hanging
    the hyphen slightly into the margin
    results in a clearer paragraph edge.
    
    #set text(overhang: false)
    This justified text has a hyphen in
    the paragraph's first line. Hanging
    the hyphen slightly into the margin
    results in a clearer paragraph edge.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MnBRs6VvAtjUYVDK-btjfgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` top-edge `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The top end of the conceptual frame around the text used for layout and
positioning. This affects the size of containers that hold text.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  ascender  " ` |  The font's ascender, which typically exceeds the height of all glyphs.   
` "  cap-height  " ` |  The approximate height of uppercase letters.   
` "  x-height  " ` |  The approximate height of non-ascending lowercase letters.   
` "  baseline  " ` |  The baseline on which the letters rest.   
` "  bounds  " ` |  The top edge of the glyph's bounding box.   
  
Default: ` "cap-height"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set rect(inset: 0pt)
    #set text(size: 20pt)
    
    #set text(top-edge: "ascender")
    #rect(fill: aqua)[Typst]
    
    #set text(top-edge: "cap-height")
    #rect(fill: aqua)[Typst]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/LDeMc2Iiqb_9L3aj1lNrpgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` bottom-edge `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The bottom end of the conceptual frame around the text used for layout and
positioning. This affects the size of containers that hold text.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  baseline  " ` |  The baseline on which the letters rest.   
` "  descender  " ` |  The font's descender, which typically exceeds the depth of all glyphs.   
` "  bounds  " ` |  The bottom edge of the glyph's bounding box.   
  
Default: ` "baseline"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set rect(inset: 0pt)
    #set text(size: 20pt)
    
    #set text(bottom-edge: "baseline")
    #rect(fill: aqua)[Typst]
    
    #set text(bottom-edge: "descender")
    #rect(fill: aqua)[Typst]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/l4WLB64gFfplM-bDPX7pEQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` lang `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

An [ ISO 639-1/2/3 language code. ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_639)

Setting the correct language affects various parts of Typst:

  * The text processing pipeline can make more informed choices. 
  * Hyphenation will use the correct patterns for the language. 
  * [ Smart quotes ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/) turns into the correct quotes for the language. 
  * And all other things which are language-aware. 

Default: ` "en"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    #outline()
    
    = Einleitung
    In diesem Dokument, ...
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/pV_uneCLTlX_ftfk4ZJI1QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` region `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

An [ ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 region code.
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2)

This lets the text processing pipeline make more informed choices.

Default: ` none  `

###  ` script `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The OpenType writing script.

The combination of ` lang ` and ` script ` determine how font features, such
as glyph substitution, are implemented. Frequently the value is a modified
(all-lowercase) ISO 15924 script identifier, and the ` math ` writing script
is used for features appropriate for mathematical symbols.

When set to ` auto  ` , the default and recommended setting, an appropriate
script is chosen for each block of characters sharing a common Unicode script
property.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(
      font: "Libertinus Serif",
      size: 20pt,
    )
    
    #let scedilla = [Å]
    #scedilla // S with a cedilla
    
    #set text(lang: "ro", script: "latn")
    #scedilla // S with a subscript comma
    
    #set text(lang: "ro", script: "grek")
    #scedilla // S with a cedilla
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IJovpbe1c5rRr9DM_KRhvgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` dir `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ direction
](/docs/reference/layout/direction/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The dominant direction for text and inline objects. Possible values are:

  * ` auto  ` : Automatically infer the direction from the ` lang ` property. 
  * ` ltr ` : Layout text from left to right. 
  * ` rtl ` : Layout text from right to left. 

When writing in right-to-left scripts like Arabic or Hebrew, you should set
the [ text language ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) or
direction. While individual runs of text are automatically layouted in the
correct direction, setting the dominant direction gives the bidirectional
reordering algorithm the necessary information to correctly place punctuation
and inline objects. Furthermore, setting the direction affects the alignment
values ` start ` and ` end ` , which are equivalent to ` left ` and ` right `
in ` ltr ` text and the other way around in ` rtl ` text.

If you set this to ` rtl ` and experience bugs or in some way bad looking
output, please get in touch with us through the [ Forum
](https://forum.typst.app/) , [ Discord server
](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) , or our [ contact form
](https://typst.app/contact) .

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(dir: rtl)
    ÙØ°Ø§ Ø¹Ø±Ø¨Ù.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/KrWAMeKAPNsts-l34CremAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` hyphenate `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to hyphenate text to improve line breaking. When ` auto  ` , text will
be hyphenated if and only if justification is enabled.

Setting the [ text language ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang)
ensures that the correct hyphenation patterns are used.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set page(width: 200pt)
    
    #set par(justify: true)
    This text illustrates how
    enabling hyphenation can
    improve justification.
    
    #set text(hyphenate: false)
    This text illustrates how
    enabling hyphenation can
    improve justification.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4Pafis8Dv1GSWE8dIkAx2wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` costs `

[ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The "cost" of various choices when laying out text. A higher cost means the
layout engine will make the choice less often. Costs are specified as a ratio
of the default cost, so ` 50%  ` will make text layout twice as eager to make
a given choice, while ` 200%  ` will make it half as eager.

Currently, the following costs can be customized:

  * ` hyphenation ` : splitting a word across multiple lines 
  * ` runt ` : ending a paragraph with a line with a single word 
  * ` widow ` : leaving a single line of paragraph on the next page 
  * ` orphan ` : leaving single line of paragraph on the previous page 

Hyphenation is generally avoided by placing the whole word on the next line,
so a higher hyphenation cost can result in awkward justification spacing.

Runts are avoided by placing more or fewer words on previous lines, so a
higher runt cost can result in more awkward in justification spacing.

Text layout prevents widows and orphans by default because they are generally
discouraged by style guides. However, in some contexts they are allowed
because the prevention method, which moves a line to the next page, can result
in an uneven number of lines between pages. The ` widow ` and ` orphan ` costs
allow disabling these modifications. (Currently, ` 0%  ` allows
widows/orphans; anything else, including the default of ` 100%  ` , prevents
them. More nuanced cost specification for these modifications is planned for
the future.)

Default: ` (  hyphenation  :  100%  ,  runt  :  100%  ,  widow  :  100%  ,
orphan  :  100%  ,  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(hyphenate: true, size: 11.4pt)
    #set par(justify: true)
    
    #lorem(10)
    
    // Set hyphenation to ten times the normal cost.
    #set text(costs: (hyphenation: 1000%))
    
    #lorem(10)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/k9JLw8qIVUINakYrnv50nAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` kerning `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to apply kerning.

When enabled, specific letter pairings move closer together or further apart
for a more visually pleasing result. The example below demonstrates how
decreasing the gap between the "T" and "o" results in a more natural look.
Setting this to ` false  ` disables kerning by turning off the OpenType ` kern
` font feature.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(size: 25pt)
    Totally
    
    #set text(kerning: false)
    Totally
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/7Gj4TjnwP0QfSOeJi7dKdAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` alternates `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to apply stylistic alternates.

Sometimes fonts contain alternative glyphs for the same codepoint. Setting
this to ` true  ` switches to these by enabling the OpenType ` salt ` font
feature.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(
      font: "IBM Plex Sans",
      size: 20pt,
    )
    
    0, a, g, Ã
    
    #set text(alternates: true)
    0, a, g, Ã
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/I0B88ggX_x3jq5W1mvWVIgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stylistic-set `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Which stylistic sets to apply. Font designers can categorize alternative
glyphs forms into stylistic sets. As this value is highly font-specific, you
need to consult your font to know which sets are available.

This can be set to an integer or an array of integers, all of which must be
between ` 1  ` and ` 20  ` , enabling the corresponding OpenType feature(s)
from ` ss01 ` to ` ss20 ` . Setting this to ` none  ` will disable all
stylistic sets.

Default: ` (  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(font: "IBM Plex Serif")
    Ã vs #text(stylistic-set: 5)[Ã] \
    10 years ago vs #text(stylistic-set: (1, 2, 3))[10 years ago]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/W4bB6oEym3iwH_NdeQRsEAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` ligatures `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether standard ligatures are active.

Certain letter combinations like "fi" are often displayed as a single merged
glyph called a _ligature._ Setting this to ` false  ` disables these ligatures
by turning off the OpenType ` liga ` and ` clig ` font features.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(size: 20pt)
    A fine ligature.
    
    #set text(ligatures: false)
    A fine ligature.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/IQnLFKoKsoxRyhR3pSbfiwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` discretionary-ligatures `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether ligatures that should be used sparingly are active. Setting this to `
true  ` enables the OpenType ` dlig ` font feature.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` historical-ligatures `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether historical ligatures are active. Setting this to ` true  ` enables the
OpenType ` hlig ` font feature.

Default: ` false  `

###  ` number-type `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Which kind of numbers / figures to select. When set to ` auto  ` , the default
numbers for the font are used.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  lining  " ` |  Numbers that fit well with capital text (the OpenType ` lnum ` font feature).   
` "  old-style  " ` |  Numbers that fit well into a flow of upper- and lowercase text (the OpenType ` onum ` font feature).   
  
Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(font: "Noto Sans", 20pt)
    #set text(number-type: "lining")
    Number 9.
    
    #set text(number-type: "old-style")
    Number 9.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/Jl5yPI_4pX3UbcVjqxI5_QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` number-width `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The width of numbers / figures. When set to ` auto  ` , the default numbers
for the font are used.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  proportional  " ` |  Numbers with glyph-specific widths (the OpenType ` pnum ` font feature).   
` "  tabular  " ` |  Numbers of equal width (the OpenType ` tnum ` font feature).   
  
Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(font: "Noto Sans", 20pt)
    #set text(number-width: "proportional")
    A 12 B 34. \
    A 56 B 78.
    
    #set text(number-width: "tabular")
    A 12 B 34. \
    A 56 B 78.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6iCMWj0AW9bSFKBJ48tdiwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` slashed-zero `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to have a slash through the zero glyph. Setting this to ` true  `
enables the OpenType ` zero ` font feature.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    0, #text(slashed-zero: true)[0]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/NqkvE1KDtvrmSgKJnmfRWwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` fractions `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to turn numbers into fractions. Setting this to ` true  ` enables the
OpenType ` frac ` font feature.

It is not advisable to enable this property globally as it will mess with all
appearances of numbers after a slash (e.g., in URLs). Instead, enable it
locally when you want a fraction.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    1/2 \
    #text(fractions: true)[1/2]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ReL3WGljBzDnfTHeymCXGQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` features `

[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Raw OpenType features to apply.

  * If given an array of strings, sets the features identified by the strings to ` 1  ` . 
  * If given a dictionary mapping to numbers, sets the features identified by the keys to the values. 

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    // Enable the `frac` feature manually.
    #set text(features: ("frac",))
    1/2
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/YY_AfHqvOwZWtTBzfgDvMwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

Content in which all text is styled according to the other arguments.

###  ` text `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The text.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Superscript  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/super/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Underline  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/underline/)



# **docs/reference/text/lower.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Lowercase ](/docs/reference/text/lower/)

#  ` lower `

Converts a string or content to lowercase.

##  Example

    
    
    #lower("ABC") \
    #lower[*My Text*] \
    #lower[already low]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/zbgdZcwg4Knc-ePylT0zpQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

lower  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` text `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The text to convert to lowercase.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Lorem  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/lorem/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Overline  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/overline/)



# **docs/reference/text/smartquote.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Smartquote ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/)

#  ` smartquote ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A language-aware quote that reacts to its context.

Automatically turns into an appropriate opening or closing quote based on the
active [ text language ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) .

##  Example

    
    
    "This is in quotes."
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    "Das ist in AnfÃ¼hrungszeichen."
    
    #set text(lang: "fr")
    "C'est entre guillemets."
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/dhrUjSwC3cH8VIWvplWrzwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: The normal quote characters ( ` ' `
and ` " ` ). Typst automatically makes your quotes smart.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

smartquote  (

double  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  enabled  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  alternative  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  quotes  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
[ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` double `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether this should be a double quote.

Default: ` true  `

###  ` enabled `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether smart quotes are enabled.

To disable smartness for a single quote, you can also escape it with a
backslash.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set smartquote(enabled: false)
    
    These are "dumb" quotes.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ykeeFPAnOBNAwmLXSDxTqAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` alternative `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to use alternative quotes.

Does nothing for languages that don't have alternative quotes, or if explicit
quotes were set.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    #set smartquote(alternative: true)
    
    "Das ist in anderen AnfÃ¼hrungszeichen."
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/lyTPNxNjIzyFJbp-JlBMpgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` quotes `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The quotes to use.

  * When set to ` auto  ` , the appropriate single quotes for the [ text language ](/docs/reference/text/text/#parameters-lang) will be used. This is the default. 
  * Custom quotes can be passed as a string, array, or dictionary of either 
    * [ string ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) : a string consisting of two characters containing the opening and closing double quotes (characters here refer to Unicode grapheme clusters) 
    * [ array ](/docs/reference/foundations/array/ "array") : an array containing the opening and closing double quotes 
    * [ dictionary ](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/ "dictionary") : an array containing the double and single quotes, each specified as either ` auto  ` , string, or array 

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(lang: "de")
    'Das sind normale AnfÃ¼hrungszeichen.'
    
    #set smartquote(quotes: "()")
    "Das sind eigene AnfÃ¼hrungszeichen."
    
    #set smartquote(quotes: (single: ("[[", "]]"),  double: auto))
    'Das sind eigene AnfÃ¼hrungszeichen.'
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bSqE_vffbQfTFgF9cX2J6AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Small Capitals  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Strikethrough  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/strike/)



# **docs/reference/text/linebreak.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Line Break ](/docs/reference/text/linebreak/)

#  ` linebreak ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Inserts a line break.

Advances the paragraph to the next line. A single trailing line break at the
end of a paragraph is ignored, but more than one creates additional empty
lines.

##  Example

    
    
    *Date:* 26.12.2022 \
    *Topic:* Infrastructure Test \
    *Severity:* High \
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OEyyibskK4bIsTh7Qcp7OAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax: To insert a line break, simply write
a backslash followed by whitespace. This always creates an unjustified break.

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

linebreak  (

justify  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` justify `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to justify the line before the break.

This is useful if you found a better line break opportunity in your justified
text than Typst did.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set par(justify: true)
    #let jb = linebreak(justify: true)
    
    I have manually tuned the #jb
    line breaks in this paragraph #jb
    for an _interesting_ result. #jb
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/RlJnAEDPiPVRCZ7poOHTOwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Highlight  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/highlight/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Lorem  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/lorem/)



# **docs/reference/text/highlight.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Highlight ](/docs/reference/text/highlight/)

#  ` highlight ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Highlights text with a background color.

##  Example

    
    
    This is #highlight[important].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QtpA6ir9UWFHeXPRr2gD9AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

highlight  (

fill  :  [ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) ,  stroke  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  top-edge  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,
bottom-edge  :  [ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  extent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  radius  :  [ relative
](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` fill `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The color to highlight the text with.

Default: ` rgb  (  "#fffd11a1"  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    This is #highlight(
      fill: blue
    )[highlighted with blue].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/oW--DyYpfs3nP_lZOIl65gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` stroke `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The highlight's border color. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-stroke) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    This is a #highlight(
      stroke: fuchsia
    )[stroked highlighting].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/VdZlBJnkRgdzR_4L65zKzQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` top-edge `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The top end of the background rectangle.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  ascender  " ` |  The font's ascender, which typically exceeds the height of all glyphs.   
` "  cap-height  " ` |  The approximate height of uppercase letters.   
` "  x-height  " ` |  The approximate height of non-ascending lowercase letters.   
` "  baseline  " ` |  The baseline on which the letters rest.   
` "  bounds  " ` |  The top edge of the glyph's bounding box.   
  
Default: ` "ascender"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set highlight(top-edge: "ascender")
    #highlight[a] #highlight[aib]
    
    #set highlight(top-edge: "x-height")
    #highlight[a] #highlight[aib]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/33w6KWiqvSrMq41iE5ob_QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` bottom-edge `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The bottom end of the background rectangle.

Variant  |  Details   
---|---  
` "  baseline  " ` |  The baseline on which the letters rest.   
` "  descender  " ` |  The font's descender, which typically exceeds the depth of all glyphs.   
` "  bounds  " ` |  The bottom edge of the glyph's bounding box.   
  
Default: ` "descender"  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set highlight(bottom-edge: "descender")
    #highlight[a] #highlight[ap]
    
    #set highlight(bottom-edge: "baseline")
    #highlight[a] #highlight[ap]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tZTem6RAQXJ8OFzIrL6AnAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` extent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount by which to extend the background to the sides beyond (or within if
negative) the content.

Default: ` 0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    A long #highlight(extent: 4pt)[background].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/L2wf2ozgvgMg2iI3FR9LdQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` radius `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How much to round the highlight's corners. See the [ rectangle's documentation
](/docs/reference/visualize/rect/#parameters-radius) for more details.

Default: ` (  :  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    Listen #highlight(
      radius: 5pt, extent: 2pt
    )[carefully], it will be on the test.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MdD0cA7uGh7p2z32380_kAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content that should be highlighted.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Text  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Line Break
Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/linebreak/)



# **docs/reference/text/lorem.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Lorem ](/docs/reference/text/lorem/)

#  ` lorem `

Creates blind text.

This function yields a Latin-like _Lorem Ipsum_ blind text with the given
number of words. The sequence of words generated by the function is always the
same but randomly chosen. As usual for blind texts, it does not make any
sense. Use it as a placeholder to try layouts.

##  Example

    
    
    = Blind Text
    #lorem(30)
    
    = More Blind Text
    #lorem(15)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/ivKswpaSkeLwjU6-8qNTjgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

lorem  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

###  ` words `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The length of the blind text in words.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Line Break  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/linebreak/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Lowercase  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/lower/)



# **docs/reference/text/strike.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Strikethrough ](/docs/reference/text/strike/)

#  ` strike ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Strikes through text.

##  Example

    
    
    This is #strike[not] relevant.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/gYmGRzTLJUGSNzHzEZFB3gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

strike  (

stroke  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  offset  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  extent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  background  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` stroke `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke") the line.

If set to ` auto  ` , takes on the text's color and a thickness defined in the
current font.

_Note:_ Please don't use this for real redaction as you can still copy paste
the text.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    This is #strike(stroke: 1.5pt + red)[very stricken through]. \
    This is #strike(stroke: 10pt)[redacted].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/z5bibL2s5nJ9Rg5dVQco5QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` offset `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The position of the line relative to the baseline. Read from the font tables
if ` auto  ` .

This is useful if you are unhappy with the offset your font provides.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(font: "Inria Serif")
    This is #strike(offset: auto)[low-ish]. \
    This is #strike(offset: -3.5pt)[on-top].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1OEdd7_f0OE1q_8jKEVHmQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` extent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount by which to extend the line beyond (or within if negative) the
content.

Default: ` 0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    This #strike(extent: -2pt)[skips] parts of the word.
    This #strike(extent: 2pt)[extends] beyond the word.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/EqeD8OvCZeei8kbI8T5T0AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` background `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the line is placed behind the content.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set strike(stroke: red)
    #strike(background: true)[This is behind.] \
    #strike(background: false)[This is in front.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/5BzB-6LlvrhILN951-2KuQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to strike through.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Smartquote  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Subscript  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/sub/)



# **docs/reference/text/raw.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Raw Text / Code ](/docs/reference/text/raw/)

#  ` raw ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Raw text with optional syntax highlighting.

Displays the text verbatim and in a monospace font. This is typically used to
embed computer code into your document.

##  Example

    
    
    Adding `rbx` to `rcx` gives
    the desired result.
    
    What is ```rust fn main()``` in Rust
    would be ```c int main()``` in C.
    
    ```rust
    fn main() {
        println!("Hello World!");
    }
    ```
    
    This has ``` `backticks` ``` in it
    (but the spaces are trimmed). And
    ``` here``` the leading space is
    also trimmed.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/HG5qpETGRO7ndBI1Qrek9gAAAAAAAAAA.png)

You can also construct a [ ` raw ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`")
element programmatically from a string (and provide the language tag via the
optional [ ` lang ` ](/docs/reference/text/raw/#parameters-lang) argument).

    
    
    #raw("fn " + "main() {}", lang: "rust")
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/MNABiMKxTxPPaXzIwfuPPQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Syntax

This function also has dedicated syntax. You can enclose text in 1 or 3+
backticks ( ` ` ` ) to make it raw. Two backticks produce empty raw text. This
works both in markup and code.

When you use three or more backticks, you can additionally specify a language
tag for syntax highlighting directly after the opening backticks. Within raw
blocks, everything (except for the language tag, if applicable) is rendered as
is, in particular, there are no escape sequences.

The language tag is an identifier that directly follows the opening backticks
only if there are three or more backticks. If your text starts with something
that looks like an identifier, but no syntax highlighting is needed, start the
text with a single space (which will be trimmed) or use the single backtick
syntax. If your text should start or end with a backtick, put a space before
or after it (it will be trimmed).

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

raw  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  block  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  lang  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  align  :  [ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/) ,  syntaxes  :
[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/) ,  theme  :  [ none
](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)
,  tab-size  :  [ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` text `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The raw text.

You can also use raw blocks creatively to create custom syntaxes for your
automations.

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    // Parse numbers in raw blocks with the
    // `mydsl` tag and sum them up.
    #show raw.where(lang: "mydsl"): it => {
      let sum = 0
      for part in it.text.split("+") {
        sum += int(part.trim())
      }
      sum
    }
    
    ```mydsl
    1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5
    ```
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/6VperjQoP8Ey0LiUk5m0HQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` block `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the raw text is displayed as a separate block.

In markup mode, using one-backtick notation makes this ` false  ` . Using
three-backtick notation makes it ` true  ` if the enclosed content contains at
least one line break.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    // Display inline code in a small box
    // that retains the correct baseline.
    #show raw.where(block: false): box.with(
      fill: luma(240),
      inset: (x: 3pt, y: 0pt),
      outset: (y: 3pt),
      radius: 2pt,
    )
    
    // Display block code in a larger block
    // with more padding.
    #show raw.where(block: true): block.with(
      fill: luma(240),
      inset: 10pt,
      radius: 4pt,
    )
    
    With `rg`, you can search through your files quickly.
    This example searches the current directory recursively
    for the text `Hello World`:
    
    ```bash
    rg "Hello World"
    ```
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PgXCmmr2Cn53ZnpWQOnMwwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` lang `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The language to syntax-highlight in.

Apart from typical language tags known from Markdown, this supports the `
"typ"  ` , ` "typc"  ` , and ` "typm"  ` tags for [ Typst markup
](/docs/reference/syntax/#markup) , [ Typst code
](/docs/reference/syntax/#code) , and [ Typst math
](/docs/reference/syntax/#math) , respectively.

Default: ` none  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    ```typ
    This is *Typst!*
    ```
    
    This is ```typ also *Typst*```, but inline!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/bjU3PMlFs9msUi72QThHnAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` align `

[ alignment ](/docs/reference/layout/alignment/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The horizontal alignment that each line in a raw block should have. This
option is ignored if this is not a raw block (if specified ` block: false ` or
single backticks were used in markup mode).

By default, this is set to ` start ` , meaning that raw text is aligned
towards the start of the text direction inside the block by default,
regardless of the current context's alignment (allowing you to center the raw
block itself without centering the text inside it, for example).

Default: ` start `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set raw(align: center)
    
    ```typc
    let f(x) = x
    code = "centered"
    ```
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/QoY61HWjc7MIUABTr8mvwwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` syntaxes `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ array
](/docs/reference/foundations/array/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

One or multiple additional syntax definitions to load. The syntax definitions
should be in the [ ` sublime-syntax ` file format
](https://www.sublimetext.com/docs/syntax.html) .

Default: ` (  )  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set raw(syntaxes: "SExpressions.sublime-syntax")
    
    ```sexp
    (defun factorial (x)
      (if (zerop x)
        ; with a comment
        1
        (* x (factorial (- x 1)))))
    ```
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/f1wEtKdjbuwy-LVNGIZ_igAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` theme `

[ none ](/docs/reference/foundations/none/) or  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The theme to use for syntax highlighting. Theme files should be in the [ `
tmTheme ` file format
](https://www.sublimetext.com/docs/color_schemes_tmtheme.html) .

Applying a theme only affects the color of specifically highlighted text. It
does not consider the theme's foreground and background properties, so that
you retain control over the color of raw text. You can apply the foreground
color yourself with the [ ` text ` ](/docs/reference/text/text/ "`text`")
function and the background with a [ filled block
](/docs/reference/layout/block/#parameters-fill) . You could also use the [ `
xml ` ](/docs/reference/data-loading/xml/ "`xml`") function to extract these
properties from the theme.

Additionally, you can set the theme to ` none  ` to disable highlighting.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set raw(theme: "halcyon.tmTheme")
    #show raw: it => block(
      fill: rgb("#1d2433"),
      inset: 8pt,
      radius: 5pt,
      text(fill: rgb("#a2aabc"), it)
    )
    
    ```typ
    = Chapter 1
    #let hi = "Hello World"
    ```
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/_3ndU0y1KsOpDAMv999GwwAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` tab-size `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The size for a tab stop in spaces. A tab is replaced with enough spaces to
align with the next multiple of the size.

Default: ` 2  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set raw(tab-size: 8)
    ```tsv
    Year	Month	Day
    2000	2	3
    2001	2	1
    2002	3	10
    ```
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/OAN98lLQ4wUhrTrjbVCTywAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Definitions

Question mark

Functions and types and can have associated definitions. These are accessed by
specifying the function or type, followed by a period, and then the
definition's name.

###  ` line ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

A highlighted line of raw text.

This is a helper element that is synthesized by [ ` raw `
](/docs/reference/text/raw/ "`raw`") elements.

It allows you to access various properties of the line, such as the line
number, the raw non-highlighted text, the highlighted text, and whether it is
the first or last line of the raw block.

raw  .  line  (

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ int
](/docs/reference/foundations/int/) ,  [ str
](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

####  ` number `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The line number of the raw line inside of the raw block, starts at 1.

####  ` count `

[ int ](/docs/reference/foundations/int/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The total number of lines in the raw block.

####  ` text `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The line of raw text.

####  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The highlighted raw text.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Overline  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/overline/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Small Capitals  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/)



# **docs/reference/text/smallcaps.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Small Capitals ](/docs/reference/text/smallcaps/)

#  ` smallcaps ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Displays text in small capitals.

##  Example

    
    
    Hello \
    #smallcaps[Hello]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/2GDSP4AltxmHWBvxVXZrwQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Smallcaps fonts

By default, this enables the OpenType ` smcp ` feature for the font. Not all
fonts support this feature. Sometimes smallcaps are part of a dedicated font.
This is, for example, the case for the _Latin Modern_ family of fonts. In
those cases, you can use a show-set rule to customize the appearance of the
text in smallcaps:

    
    
    #show smallcaps: set text(font: "Latin Modern Roman Caps")
    

In the future, this function will support synthesizing smallcaps from normal
letters, but this is not yet implemented.

##  Smallcaps headings

You can use a [ show rule ](/docs/reference/styling/#show-rules) to apply
smallcaps formatting to all your headings. In the example below, we also
center-align our headings and disable the standard bold font.

    
    
    #set par(justify: true)
    #set heading(numbering: "I.")
    
    #show heading: smallcaps
    #show heading: set align(center)
    #show heading: set text(
      weight: "regular"
    )
    
    = Introduction
    #lorem(40)
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/f0e4HVzW7NKFp4uqk6LvqgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

smallcaps  (

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to display in small capitals.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Raw Text / Code  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/raw/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Smartquote  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/smartquote/)



# **docs/reference/text/super.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Superscript ](/docs/reference/text/super/)

#  ` super ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Renders text in superscript.

The text is rendered smaller and its baseline is raised.

##  Example

    
    
    1#super[st] try!
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/052zwKrkvVHtZVzW65WFdQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

super  (

typographic  :  [ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  baseline  :  [
length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  size  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` typographic `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether to prefer the dedicated superscript characters of the font.

If this is enabled, Typst first tries to transform the text to superscript
codepoints. If that fails, it falls back to rendering raised and shrunk normal
letters.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    N#super(typographic: true)[1]
    N#super(typographic: false)[1]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/1_zKQkbZObDWVLT4k-2LKQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` baseline `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The baseline shift for synthetic superscripts. Does not apply if ` typographic
` is true and the font has superscript codepoints for the given ` body ` .

Default: ` -  0.5em  `

###  ` size `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The font size for synthetic superscripts. Does not apply if ` typographic ` is
true and the font has superscript codepoints for the given ` body ` .

Default: ` 0.6em  `

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The text to display in superscript.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Subscript  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/sub/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Text
Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/text/)



# **docs/reference/text/underline.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Underline ](/docs/reference/text/underline/)

#  ` underline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Underlines text.

##  Example

    
    
    This is #underline[important].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/xV-Fy8zwdVIfyHyOpdk_9AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

underline  (

stroke  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  offset  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  extent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  evade  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  background  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` stroke `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke") the line.

If set to ` auto  ` , takes on the text's color and a thickness defined in the
current font.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    Take #underline(
      stroke: 1.5pt + red,
      offset: 2pt,
      [care],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tbLKc9iYaghdhC9NcJaJOQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` offset `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The position of the line relative to the baseline, read from the font tables
if ` auto  ` .

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #underline(offset: 5pt)[
      The Tale Of A Faraway Line I
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/p2tUWXcYq-E_ZbDtwzCDrAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` extent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount by which to extend the line beyond (or within if negative) the
content.

Default: ` 0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #align(center,
      underline(extent: 2pt)[Chapter 1]
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/tbT2BOLPtcXW-alQPb8q6wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` evade `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the line skips sections in which it would collide with the glyphs.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    This #underline(evade: true)[is great].
    This #underline(evade: false)[is less great].
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/PaJc2qUpoh1s97E6NZYz0QAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` background `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the line is placed behind the content it underlines.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set underline(stroke: (thickness: 1em, paint: maroon, cap: "round"))
    #underline(background: true)[This is stylized.] \
    #underline(background: false)[This is partially hidden.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/W98M7AlnFoSVnlt9g5bIsAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to underline.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Text  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/text/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Uppercase  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/upper/)



# **docs/reference/text/overline.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Overline ](/docs/reference/text/overline/)

#  ` overline ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Adds a line over text.

##  Example

    
    
    #overline[A line over text.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/BQmJqK4pMIkZOu3QEFxsZAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

overline  (

stroke  :  [ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) [ color ](/docs/reference/visualize/color/)
[ gradient ](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/) ,  offset  :  [ auto
](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  extent  :  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) ,  evade  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  background  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` stroke `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/) or  [ color
](/docs/reference/visualize/color/) or  [ gradient
](/docs/reference/visualize/gradient/) or  [ stroke
](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/) or  [ pattern
](/docs/reference/visualize/pattern/) or  [ dictionary
](/docs/reference/foundations/dictionary/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

How to [ stroke ](/docs/reference/visualize/stroke/ "stroke") the line.

If set to ` auto  ` , takes on the text's color and a thickness defined in the
current font.

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set text(fill: olive)
    #overline(
      stroke: green.darken(20%),
      offset: -12pt,
      [The Forest Theme],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/jXEAZxd9NFnCtgcbDVlzIQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` offset `

[ auto ](/docs/reference/foundations/auto/) or  [ length
](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The position of the line relative to the baseline. Read from the font tables
if ` auto  ` .

Default: ` auto  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #overline(offset: -1.2em)[
      The Tale Of A Faraway Line II
    ]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/AUBIhMOFPefmpe2mV6TTrgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` extent `

[ length ](/docs/reference/layout/length/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

The amount by which to extend the line beyond (or within if negative) the
content.

Default: ` 0pt  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set overline(extent: 4pt)
    #set underline(extent: 4pt)
    #overline(underline[Typography Today])
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/11dFhng73-PPcouY1kGuxAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` evade `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the line skips sections in which it would collide with the glyphs.

Default: ` true  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #overline(
      evade: false,
      offset: -7.5pt,
      stroke: 1pt,
      extent: 3pt,
      [Temple],
    )
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/4typb8n1rt84GcGKwEvmQAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` background `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

Whether the line is placed behind the content it overlines.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #set overline(stroke: (thickness: 1em, paint: maroon, cap: "round"))
    #overline(background: true)[This is stylized.] \
    #overline(background: false)[This is partially hidden.]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/J1qF0GrkgS3hBoWTovrZ_AAAAAAAAAAA.png)

###  ` body `

[ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The content to add a line over.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Lowercase  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/lower/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Raw
Text / Code  Next page  ](/docs/reference/text/raw/)



# **docs/reference/text/upper.md**

  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Text ](/docs/reference/text/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Uppercase ](/docs/reference/text/upper/)

#  ` upper `

Converts a string or content to uppercase.

##  Example

    
    
    #upper("abc") \
    #upper[*my text*] \
    #upper[ALREADY HIGH]
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/0rcLdDpP-7G0hFWoW3-J-wAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

upper  (

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

)  -> [ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` text `

[ str ](/docs/reference/foundations/str/) or  [ content
](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

The text to convert to uppercase.

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Underline  Previous page
](/docs/reference/text/underline/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Math  Next page  ](/docs/reference/math/)

