  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Community ](/docs/community/)

#  Community

Hey and welcome to the Community page! We're so glad you're here. Typst is
developed by an early-stage startup and it is still early days, but it would
be pointless without people like you who are interested in it.

We would love to not only hear from you but to also provide spaces where you
can discuss any topic around Typst, typesetting, writing, the sciences, and
typography with other likeminded people.

**Our[ Forum ](https://forum.typst.app/) is the best place to get answers for
questions on Typst and to show off your creations. ** If you would like to
chat with the community and shape the future development of Typst, we would
like to also invite you to our [ Discord server
](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) . We coordinate our Open-Source work there,
but you can also iterate on Typst projects and discuss off-topic things with
the community members. Both the Forum and the Discord server are open for
everyone. Of course, you are also very welcome to connect with us on social
media ( [ Mastodon ](https://mastodon.social/@typst) , [ Bluesky
](https://bsky.app/profile/typst.app) , [ Instagram
](https://instagram.com/typstapp/) , [ LinkedIn
](https://linkedin.com/company/typst) , and [ GitHub
](https://github.com/typst) ).

##  What to share?

For our community, we want to foster versatility and inclusivity. You are
welcome to post about any topic that you think would interest other community
members, but if you need a little inspiration, here are a few ideas:

  * Share and discuss your thoughts and ideas for new features or improvements you'd like to see in Typst 
  * Showcase documents you've created with Typst, or share any unique or creative ways you've used the platform 
  * Share importable files or templates that you use to style your documents 
  * Alert us of bugs you encounter while using Typst 

##  Following the development

Typst is still under very active development and breaking changes can occur at
any point. The compiler is developed in the open on [ GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst) .

We will update the members of our Discord server and our social media
followers when new features become available. We'll also update you on the
development progress of large features.

##  How to support Typst

If you want to support Typst, there are multiple ways to do that! You can [
contribute to the code ](https://github.com/typst/typst) or [ translate the
strings in Typst
](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Atypst%2Ftypst+impl+LocalName+for&type=code)
to your native language if it's not supported yet. You can also help us by [
subscribing to the paid tier of our web app ](https://typst.app/pricing) or [
sponsoring our Open Source efforts! ](https://github.com/sponsors/typst)
Multiple recurring sponsorship tiers are available and all of them come with a
set of goodies. No matter how you contribute, thank you for your support!

##  Community Rules

We want to make our community a safe and inclusive space for everyone.
Therefore, we will not tolerate any sexual harassment, sexism, political
attacks, derogatory language or personal insults, racism, doxing, and other
inappropriate behaviour. We pledge to remove members that are in violation of
these rules. [ Contact us ](https://typst.app/contact/) if you think another
community member acted inappropriately towards you. All complaints will be
reviewed and investigated promptly and fairly.

In addition, our [ privacy policy ](https://typst.app/privacy/) applies on all
community spaces operated by us, such as the Discord server. Please also note
that the terms of service and privacy policies of the respective services
apply.

##  See you soon!

Thanks again for learning more about Typst. We would be delighted to meet you
on our [ Discord server ](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) !

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Roadmap  Previous page
](/docs/roadmap/)

