  * [ ![Docs](/assets/icons/16-docs-dark.svg) ](/docs)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Reference ](/docs/reference/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Layout ](/docs/reference/layout/)
  * ![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
  * [ Spacing (H) ](/docs/reference/layout/h/)

#  ` h ` Element

Question mark

Element functions can be customized with ` set ` and  ` show ` rules.

Inserts horizontal spacing into a paragraph.

The spacing can be absolute, relative, or fractional. In the last case, the
remaining space on the line is distributed among all fractional spacings
according to their relative fractions.

##  Example

    
    
    First #h(1cm) Second \
    First #h(30%) Second
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/8wL-xYLR6Y7MLlpoIuX_vAAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Fractional spacing

With fractional spacing, you can align things within a line without forcing a
paragraph break (like [ ` align ` ](/docs/reference/layout/align/ "`align`")
would). Each fractionally sized element gets space based on the ratio of its
fraction to the sum of all fractions.

    
    
    First #h(1fr) Second \
    First #h(1fr) Second #h(1fr) Third \
    First #h(2fr) Second #h(1fr) Third
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/pBCqhY9Aheurjnzy2VgPBgAAAAAAAAAA.png)

##  Mathematical Spacing

In [ mathematical formulas ](/docs/reference/math/) , you can additionally use
these constants to add spacing between elements: ` thin ` (1/6Â em), ` med `
(2/9Â em), ` thick ` (5/18Â em), ` quad ` (1Â em), ` wide ` (2Â em).

##  Parameters

Question mark

Parameters are the inputs to a function. They are specified in parentheses
after the function name.

h  (

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/) ,  weak  :  [ bool
](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/) ,

)  -> [ content ](/docs/reference/foundations/content/)

###  ` amount `

[ relative ](/docs/reference/layout/relative/) or  [ fraction
](/docs/reference/layout/fraction/)

Required  Positional

Question mark

Positional parameters are specified in order, without names.

How much spacing to insert.

###  ` weak `

[ bool ](/docs/reference/foundations/bool/)

Settable

Question mark

Settable parameters can be customized for all following uses of the function
with a ` set ` rule.

If ` true  ` , the spacing collapses at the start or end of a paragraph.
Moreover, from multiple adjacent weak spacings all but the largest one
collapse.

Weak spacing in markup also causes all adjacent markup spaces to be removed,
regardless of the amount of spacing inserted. To force a space next to weak
spacing, you can explicitly write ` #  " "  ` (for a normal space) or ` ~  `
(for a non-breaking space). The latter can be useful to create a construct
that always attaches to the preceding word with one non-breaking space,
independently of whether a markup space existed in front or not.

Default: ` false  `

![](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) View example

    
    
    #h(1cm, weak: true)
    We identified a group of _weak_
    specimens that fail to manifest
    in most cases. However, when
    #h(8pt, weak: true) supported
    #h(8pt, weak: true) on both sides,
    they do show up.
    
    Further #h(0pt, weak: true) more,
    even the smallest of them swallow
    adjacent markup spaces.
    

![Preview](/assets/docs/c_7b_9WV6STCF2ERdGhpfQAAAAAAAAAA.png)

[ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg) Skew  Previous page
](/docs/reference/layout/skew/) [ ![â](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)
Spacing (V)  Next page  ](/docs/reference/layout/v/)

