[ Learn what's new in Typst 0.12 ](https://typst.app/blog/2024/typst-0.12/)

[ ![Typst](/assets/images/typst.svg) ](/#start)

  * [ GitHub  ](https://github.com/typst/)
  * [ Discord  ](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe)
  * [ Mastodon  ](https://mastodon.social/@typst)
  * [ Bluesky  ](https://bsky.app/profile/typst.app)
  * [ LinkedIn  ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/typst/)
  * [ Pricing ](/pricing/)
  * [ Docs ](/docs/)
  * [ Universe ](/universe/)
  * [ Forum ](https://forum.typst.app)
  * [ Sign in ](/signin/)
  * [ Sign up ](/signup)

#  Compose  
papers  
faster

Focus on your text and let Typst take care of layout and formatting.

[ Sign up for free and try it now! ](/signup) [ View on GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst)

![A mockup of the Typst editor.](/assets/images/mockup.png)

A more productive workflow for science.

Eduardo

â  First time testing the new project creating wizard, It's great, I love
it!  â

![User image of _submersion_](/assets/images/submersion-avatar.png)

[ _submersion_
](https://www.reddit.com/r/LaTeX/comments/zyuyfc/comment/j2ddt10/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)

â  A serious contender for the title of LaTeX successor â¨  â

![User image of Alistair](/assets/images/alistair-avatar.jpg)

Alistair

â  I started using the preview, and I love typst so much!  â

![User image of BlueTJ](/assets/images/bluetj-avatar.jpg)

BlueTJ

â  First impression: Damn, it feels smooth as heck.  â

![User image of Vallaris](/assets/images/vallaaris-avatar.png)

[ Vallaris
](https://www.reddit.com/r/LaTeX/comments/zyuyfc/comment/j2d8for/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)

â  My first impression is: It's really great!  â

Louis

â  UI: Ultra clean â¨, Docs: Very comprehensive.  â

##  Team Up With Templates

Typst supercharges templates: They react to your content and format everything
instantly while you type. Select from a wide range of  [ community templates
](/universe) or create your own!

###  Changed Conferences?

Switch the template in seconds, without touching your content.

[ ![A paper in the IEEE double column style, set in the TeX Gyre Termes
typeface.](/assets/images/ieee.png) ](/assets/images/ieee-large.png) [ ![A
paper in the Oxford Genetics double column style, set in the TeX Gyre Heros
typeface.](/assets/images/oxford.png) ](/assets/images/oxford-large.png) [ ![A
paper in the MDPI single column style with an information gutter. It is set in
the TeX Gyre Pagella typeface.](/assets/images/mdpi.png)
](/assets/images/mdpi-large.png)

IEEE  Oxford  MDPI

![A paragraph of text with colorful cursors, each applying different edits.
Below, there are the profile pictures of the three users who are logged
in.](/assets/images/collab.png)

##  Work With Your Peers

Whether in the classroom, the faculty office, or at home: Typst runs in your
browser, so everyone on the team can just start writing.

###  Level up your team.

Store shared documents in team workspaces to bring everyone in your working
group on the same page.

##  Why should I use Typst instead of ...

  * LaTeX 
  * Word 
  * Google Docs 

  * Typst... 
    * previews your changes instantly. 
    * provides clear, understandable error messages. 
    * has a consistent styling system for configuring everything from fonts and margins to the look of headings and lists. 
    * uses familiar programming constructs instead of hard-to-understand macros. 
  * With Typst, you can... 
    * easily collaborate in teams. 
    * use and create powerful templates that automatically format everything as you write. 
    * just change formatting later without going over the whole document by hand. 
    * enjoy higher-quality typographical output, including improved justification. 
  * With Typst, you... 
    * can create professional-looking documents. 
    * have a lot more functionality, including better math support, figure handling, and a proper table of contents. 
    * profit from powerful templates that automatically format everything as you write. 
    * impress with higher-quality typographical output, including improved justification. 

[ ![A page with a rocket taking of on the left and a essay on rocket
propulsion on the right.](/assets/images/rocket.png) ](/assets/images/rocket-
large.png)

##  For Rocket Scientists.  
And the rest of us, too.

Most preview users learned Typst in under 60 minutes. Nothing stands between
you and stunning papers.

###  Get started quickly

with the [ 4-step tutorial ](/docs/tutorial/) . With human-friendly error
messages, Typst always helps you out if there is a problem.

##  Need Full Control?

Anything templates can do, you can do yourself.

Leverage professional typesetting features to write and design any document.

  * One language for markup and code 
  * Powerful style recipes 
  * Stack and Grid layouts 
  * Sophisticated typography 
  * Regex-powered text transformation 
  * CSV and JSON capabilities 

Learn more...

##  Ready for Science

With Typst, you can set the figures, formulas, tables, bibliographies, and
plots you need to present your research.

![Examples of various elements frequently seen in scientific publications:
References and a Bibliography, a chart created from a CSV file, a sine wave
chart, a mathematical formula, and a
table.](/assets/images/readyforscience.png)
![](/assets/images/readyforscience.png)

##  Writing Formulas has Never Been Easier

Say goodbye to fidgety formula editors and antiquated syntax.

  * ` lim  _  (  x  -> oo  )  1  /  x = 0   
Â `

  * ` vec  (  1  ,  2  )  dot  vec  (  3  ,  4  )  = 11  `
  * ` { x  in  RR  | x  "is natural"  and  x < 10 }  `

Arrow from code to rendered equation.

  * Formula: Limes from x to infinity of 1 over x equals 0. 
  * Formula: Dot product of vector 1,2 and vector 3,4 equals 11. 
  * Formula: A set of all real numbers x where x is natural and less than 10. 

First example  Second example  Third example

##  Open Source

![Typst + GitHub](/assets/images/typst-github.svg)

Typst is Open Source! You can follow along with the development on  [ GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst) and discuss Typst on our  [ Discord server.
](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe) With the  [ command line compiler
](https://github.com/typst/typst/releases) , you can always compile your
documents locally. No lock-in, ever.

##  There's more!

There is still [ so much more ](/docs/roadmap) we want to do with Typst.
Coming soon:

  * HTML export 
  * PDF/A and Tagged PDF 

##  Try Typst now!

Sign up to the web app or download the command line tool to start writing
locally.

[ Sign up for free and try it now! ](/signup) [ View on GitHub
](https://github.com/typst/typst)

We are two graduates from Berlin with a passion for software. Typst was born
out of our frustration with LaTeX. Not knowing what we were in for, we decided
to take matters into our own hands and started building.  [ Read our story.
](/about/)

  * [ Home ](/#start)
  * [ Pricing ](/pricing/)
  * [ Documentation ](/docs/)
  * [ Universe ](/universe/)
  * [ About Us ](/about/)
  * [ Contact Us ](/contact/)
  * [ Privacy ](/privacy/)
  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://typst.app/terms)
  * [ Legal (Impressum) ](/legal/)

  * [ Forum ](https://forum.typst.app)
  * [ Tools ](/tools/)
  * [ Blog ](/blog/)
  * [ GitHub ](https://github.com/typst/)
  * [ Discord ](https://discord.gg/2uDybryKPe)
  * [ Mastodon ](https://mastodon.social/@typst)
  * [ Bluesky ](https://bsky.app/profile/typst.app)
  * [ LinkedIn ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/typst/)
  * [ Instagram ](https://instagram.com/typstapp/)

Made in Berlin

![Previous image](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)

Close

![Next image](/assets/icons/16-arrow-right.svg)

